 PRINCE CASPIAN  
BY  
C.S. LEWIS  


CHAPTER ONE  
THE ISLAND  
ONCE there were four children whose names were Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy, and  it has been told in another book called The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe how they  had a remarkable adventure. They had opened the door of a magic wardrobe and found  themselves in a quite different world from ours, and in that different world they had  become Kings and Queens in a country called Narnia. While they were in Narnia they  seemed to reign for years and years; but when they came back through the door and  found themselves in England again, it all seemed to have taken no time at all. At any rate,  no one noticed that they had ever been away, and they never told anyone except one very  wise grown-up.  
That had all happened a year ago, and now all four of them were sitting on a seat at a  railway station with trunks and playboxes piled up round them. They were, in fact, on  their way back to school. They had travelled together as far as this station, which was a  junction; and here, in a few minutes, one train would arrive and take the girls away to one  school, and in about half an hour another train would arrive and the boys would go off to  another school. The first part of the journey, when they were all together, always seemed  to be part of the holidays; but now when they would be saying good-bye and going  different ways so soon, everyone felt that the holidays were really over and everyone felt  their term-time feelings beginning again, and they were all rather gloomy and no one  could think of anything to say. Lucy was going to boarding school for the first time.  
It was an empty, sleepy, country station and there was hardly anyone on the platform  except themselves. Suddenly Lucy gave a sharp little cry, like someone who has been  stung by a wasp.  
"What's up, Lu?" said Edmund - and then suddenly broke off and made a noise like  "Ow!"  
"What on earth-",began Peter, and then he too suddenly changed what he had been going  to say. Instead, he said, "Susan, let go! What are you doing? Where are you dragging me  to?"  
 
 "I'm not touching you," said Susan. "Someone is pulling me. Oh - oh -oh -stop it!"  
Everyone noticed that all the others' faces had gone very white.  
"I felt just the same," said Edmund in a breathless voice. "As if I were being dragged  along. A most frightful pulling-ugh! it's beginning again."  
"Me too," said Lucy. "Oh, I can't bear it."  
"Look sharp!" shouted Edmund. "All catch hands and keep together. This is magic - I can  tell by the feeling. Quick!"  
"Yes," said Susan. "Hold hands. Oh, I do wish it would stop-oh!"  
Next moment the luggage, the seat, the platform, and the station had completely  vanished. The four children, holding hands and panting, found themselves standing in a  woody place - such a woody place that branches were sticking into them and there was  hardly room to move. They all rubbed their eyes and took a deep breath.  
"Oh, Peter!" exclaimed Lucy. "Do you think we can possibly have got back to Narnia?"  
"It might be anywhere," said Peter. "I can't see a yard in all these trees. Let's try to get  into the open - if there is any open."  
With some difficulty, and with some stings from nettles and pricks from thorns, they  struggled out of the thicket. Then they had another surprise. Everything became much  brighter, and after a few steps they found themselves at the edge of the wood, looking  down on a sandy beach. A few yards away a very calm sea was falling on the sand with  such tiny ripples that it made hardly any sound. There was no land in sight and no clouds  in the sky. The sun was about where it ought to be at ten o'clock in the morning, and the  sea was a dazzling blue. They stood sniffing in the sea-smell.  
"By Jove!" said Peter. "This is good enough."  
Five minutes later everyone was barefooted and wading in the cool clear water.  
"This is better than being in a stuffy train on the way back to Latin and French and  Algebra!" said Edmund. And then for quite a long time there was no more talking, only  splashing and looking for shrimps and crabs.  
"All the same," said Susan presently, "I suppose we'll have to make some plans. We shall  want something to eat before long."  
"We've got the sandwiches Mother gave us for the journey," said Edmund. "At least I've  got mine."  
 
 "Not me," said Lucy. "Mine were in my little bag."  
"So were mine," said Susan.  
"Mine are in my coat-pocket, there on the beach," said Peter. "That'll be two lunches  among four. This isn't going to be such fun."  
"At present," said Lucy, "I want something to drink more than something to eat."  
Everyone else now felt thirsty, as one usually is after wading in salt water under a hot  sun.  
"It's like being shipwrecked," remarked Edmund. "In the books they always find springs  of clear, fresh water on the island. We'd better go and look for them."  
"Does that mean we have to go back into all that thick wood?" said Susan.  
"Not a bit of it," said Peter. "If there are streams they're bound to come down to the sea,  and if we walk along the beach we're bound to come to them."  
They all now waded back and went first across the smooth, wet sand and then up to the  dry, crumbly sand that sticks to one's toes, and began putting on their shoes and socks.  Edmund and Lucy wanted to leave them behind and do their exploring with bare feet, but  Susan said this would be a mad thing to do. "We might never find them again," she  pointed out, "and we shall want them if we're still here when night comes and it begins to  be cold."  
When they were dressed again they set out along the shore with the sea on their left hand  and the wood on their right. Except for an occasional seagull it was a very quiet place.  The wood was so thick and tangled that they could hardly see into it at all; and nothing in  it moved - not a bird, not even an insect.  
Shells and seaweed and anemones, or tiny crabs in rockpools, are all very well, but you  soon get tired of them if you are thirsty. The children's feet, after the change from the  cool water, felt hot and heavy. Susan and Lucy had raincoats to carry. Edmund had put  down his coat on the station seat just before the magic overtook them, and he and Peter  took it in turns to carry Peter's great-coat.  
Presently the shore began to curve round to the right. About quarter of an hour later, after  they had crossed a rocky ridge which ran out into a point, it made quite a sharp turn.  Their backs were now to the part of the sea which had met them when they first came out  of the wood, and now, looking ahead, they could see across the water another shore,  thickly wooded like the one they were exploring.  
"I wonder, is that an island or do we join on to it presently?" said Lucy.  
 
 "Don't know," said Peter and they all plodded on in silence.  
The shore that they were walking on drew nearer and nearer to the opposite shore, and as  they came round each promontory the children expected to find the place where the two  joined. But in this they were disappointed. They came to some rocks which they had to  climb and from the top they could see a fairway ahead and - "Oh bother!" said Edmund,  "it's no good. We shan't be able to get to those other woods at all. We're on an island!"  
It was true. At this point the channel between them and the opposite coast was only about  thirty or forty yards wide; but they could now see that this was its narrowest place. After  that, their own coast bent round to the right again and they could see open sea between it  and the mainland. It was obvious that they had already come much more than halfway  round the island.  
"Look!" said Lucy suddenly. "What's that?" She pointed to a long, silvery, snake-like  thing that lay across the beach.  
"A stream! A stream!" shouted the others, and, tired as they were, they lost no time in  clattering down the rocks and racing to the fresh water. They knew that the stream would  be better to drink farther up, away from the beach, so they went at once to the spot where  it came out of the wood. The trees were as thick as ever, but the stream had made itself a  deep course between high mossy banks so that by stooping you could follow it up in a  sort of tunnel of leaves. They dropped on their knees by the first brown, dimply pool and  drank and drank, and dipped their faces in the water, and then dipped their arms in up to  the elbow.  
"Now," said Edmund, "what about those sandwiches?"  
"Oh, hadn't we better have them?" said Susan. "We may need them far worse later on."  
"I do wish," said Lucy, "now that we're not thirsty, we could go on feeling as not-hungry  as we did when we were thirsty."  
"But what about those sandwiches?" repeated Edmund. "There's no good saving them till  they go bad. You've got to remember it's a good deal hotter here than in England and  we've been carrying them about in pockets for hours." So they got out the two packets  and divided them into four portions, and nobody had quite enough, but it was a great deal  better than nothing. Then they talked about their plans for the next meal. Lucy wanted to  go back to the sea and catch shrimps, until someone pointed out that they had no nets.  Edmund said they must gather gulls' eggs from the rocks, but when they came to think of  it they couldn't remember having seen any gulls' eggs and wouldn't be able to cook them  if they found any. Peter thought to himself that unless they had some stroke of luck they  would soon be glad to eat eggs raw, but he didn't see any point in saying this out loud.  Susan said it was a pity they had eaten the sandwiches so soon. One or two tempers very  nearly got lost at this stage. Finally Edmund said:  
 
 "Look here. There's only one thing to be done. We must explore the wood. Hermits and  knights-errant and people like that always manage to live somehow if they're in a forest.  They find roots and berries and things."  
"What sort of roots?" asked Susan.  
"I always thought it meant roots of trees," said Lucy.  
"Come on," said Peter, "Ed is right. And we must try to do something. And it'll be better  than going out into the glare and the sun again."  
So they all got up and began to follow the stream. It was very hard work. They had to  stoop under branches and climb over branches, and they blundered through great masses  of stuff like rhododendrons and tore their clothes and got their feet wet in the stream; and  still there was no noise at all except the noise of the stream and the noises they were  making themselves. They were beginning to get very tired of it when they noticed a  delicious smell, and then a flash of bright colour high above them at the top of the right  bank.  
"I say!" exclaimed Lucy. "I do believe that's an apple tree."  
It was. They panted up the steep bank, forced their way through some brambles, and  found themselves standing round an old tree that was heavy with large yellowishgolden  apples as firm and juicy as you could wish to see.  
"And this is not the only tree," said Edmund with his mouth full of apple. "Look there- and there."  
"Why, there are dozens of them," said Susan, throwing away the core of her first apple  and picking her second. "This must have been an orchard - long, long ago, before the  place went wild and the wood grew up."  
"Then this was once an inhabited island," said Peter.  
"And what's that?" said Lucy, pointing ahead.  
"By Jove, it's a wall," said Peter. "An old stone wall."  
Pressing their way between the laden branches they reached the wall. It was very old, and  broken down in places, with moss and wallflowers growing on it, but it was higher than  all but the tallest trees. And when they came quite close to it they found a great arch  which must once have had a gate in it but was now almost filled up with the largest of all  the apple trees. They had to break some of the branches to get past, and when they had  done so they all blinked because the daylight became suddenly much brighter. They  found themselves in a wide open place with walls all round it. In here there were no trees,  only level grass and daisies, and ivy, and grey walls. It was a bright, secret, quiet place,    
 and rather sad; and all four stepped out into the middle of it, glad to be able to straighten  their backs and move their limbs freely.  

CHAPTER TWO  
THE ANCIENT TREASURE HOUSE  
"THIS wasn't a garden," said Susan presently. "It was a castle and this must have been  the courtyard."  
"I see what you mean," said Peter. "Yes. That is the remains of a tower. And there is what  used to be a flight of steps going up to the top of the walls. And look at those other steps -  the broad, shallow ones - going up to that doorway. It must have been the door into the  great hall."  
"Ages ago, by the look of it," said Edmund.  
"Yes, ages ago," said Peter. "I wish we could find out who the people were that lived in  this castle; and how long ago."  
"It gives me a queer feeling," said Lucy.  
"Does it, Lu?" said Peter, turning and looking hard at her. "Because it does the same to  me. It is the queerest thing that has happened this queer day. I wonder where we are and  what it all means?"  
While they were talking they had crossed the courtyard and gone through the other  doorway into what had once been the hall. This was now very like the courtyard, for the  roof had long since disappeared and it was merely another space of grass and daisies,  except that it was shorter and narrower and the walls were higher. Across the far end  there was a kind of terrace about three feet higher than the rest.  
"I wonder, was it really the hall?" said Susan. "What is that terrace kind of thing?"  
"Why, you silly," said Peter (who had become strangely excited), "don't you see? That  was the dais where the High Table was, where the King and the great lords sat. Anyone  would think you had forgotten that we ourselves were once Kings and Queens and sat on  a dais just like that, in our great hall."  
"In our castle of Cair Paravel," continued Susan in a dreamy and rather sing-song voice,  "at the mouth of the great river of Narnia. How could I forget?"  
 
 "How it all comes back!" said Lucy. "We could pretend we were in Cair Paravel now.  This hall must have been very like the great hall we feasted in."  
"But unfortunately without the feast," said Edmund. "It's getting late, you know. Look  how long the shadows are. And have you noticed that it isn't so hot?"  
"We shall need a camp-fire if we've got to spend the night here," said Peter. "I've got  matches. Let's go and see if we can collect some dry wood."  
Everyone saw the sense of this, and for the next halfhour they were busy. The orchard  through which they had first come into the ruins turned out not to be a good place for  firewood. They tried the other side of the castle, passing out of the hall by a little side  door into a maze of stony humps and hollows which must once have been passages and  smaller rooms but was now all nettles and wild roses. Beyond this they found a wide gap  in the castle wall and stepped through it into a wood of darker and bigger trees where  they found dead branches and rotten wood and sticks and dry leaves and fir-cones in  plenty. They went to and fro with bundles until they had a good pile on the dais. At the  fifth journey they found the well, just outside the hall, hidden in weeds, but clean and  fresh and deep when they had cleared these away.  
The remains of a stone pavement ran half-way round it. Then the girls went out to pick  some more apples and the boys built the fire, on the dais and fairly close to the corner  between two walls, which they thought would be the snuggest and warmest place. They  had great difficulty in lighting it and used a lot of matches, but they succeeded in the end.  Finally, all four sat down with their backs to the wall and their faces to the fire. They  tried roasting some of the apples on the ends of sticks. But roast apples are not much  good without sugar, and they are too hot to eat with your fingers till they are too cold to  be worth eating. So they had to content themselves with raw apples, which, as Edmund  said, made one realize that school suppers weren't so bad after all - "I shouldn't mind a  good thick slice of bread and margarine this minute," he added. But the spirit of  adventure was rising in them all, and no one really wanted to be back at school.  
Shortly after the last apple had been eaten, Susan went out to the well to get another  drink. When she came back she was carrying something in her hand.  
"Look," she said in a rather choking kind of voice. "I found it by the well." She handed it  to Peter and sat down. The others thought she looked and sounded as if she might be  going to cry. Edmund and Lucy eagerly bent forward to see what was in Peter's hand - a  little, bright thing that gleamed in the firelight.  
"Well, I'm - I'm jiggered," said Peter, and his voice also sounded queer. Then he handed it  to the others.  
All now saw what it was - a little chess-knight, ordinary in size but extraordinarily heavy  because it was made of pure gold; and the eyes in the horse's head were two tiny little  rubies or rather one was, for the other had been knocked out.    
"Why!" said Lucy, "it's exactly like one of the golden chessmen we used to play with  when we were Kings and Queens at Cair Paravel."  
"Cheer up, Su," said Peter to his other sister.  
"I can't help it," said Susan. "It brought back - oh, such lovely times. And I remembered  playing chess with fauns and good giants, and the mer-people singing in the sea, and my  beautiful horse - and - and -"  
"Now," said Peter in a quite different voice, "it's about time we four started using our  brains."  
"What about?" asked Edmund.  
"Have none of you guessed where we are?" said Peter.  
"Go on, go on," said Lucy. "I've felt for hours that there was some wonderful mystery  hanging over this place."  
"Fire ahead, Peter," said Edmund. "We're all listening."  
"We are in the ruins of Cair Paravel itself," said Peter.  
"But, I say," replied Edmund. "I mean, how do you make that out? This place has been  ruined for ages. Look at all those big trees growing right up to the gates. Look at the very  stones. Anyone can see that nobody has lived here for hundreds of years."  
"I know," said Peter. "That is the difficulty. But let's leave that out for the moment. I want  to take the points one by one. First point: this hall is exactly the same shape and size as  the hall at Cair Paravel. Just picture a roof on this, and a coloured pavement instead of  grass, and tapestries on the walls, and you get our royal banqueting hall."  
No one said anything.  
"Second point," continued Peter. "The castle well is exactly where our well was, a little to  the south of the great hall; and it is exactly the same size and shape."  
Again there was no reply.  
"Third point: Susan has just found one of our old chessmen - or something as like one of  them as two peas."  
Still nobody answered.  
 
 "Fourth point. Don't you remember - it was the very day before the ambassadors came  from the King of Calormen don't you remember planting the orchard outside the north  gate of Cair Paravel? The greatest of all the wood-people, Pomona herself, came to put  good spells on it. It was those very decent little chaps the moles who did the actual  digging. Can you have forgotten that funny old Lilygloves, the chief mole, leaning on his  spade and saying, `Believe me, your Majesty, you'll be glad of these fruit trees one day.'  And by Jove he was right."  
"I do! I do!" said Lucy, and clapped her hands.  
"But look here, Peter," said Edmund. "This must be all rot. To begin with, we didn't plant  the orchard slap up against the gate. We wouldn't have been such fools."  
"No, of course not," said Peter. "But it has grown up to the gate since."  
"And for another thing," said Edmund, "Cair Paravel wasn't on an island."  
"Yes, I've been wondering about that. But it was a what-do-you-call-it, a peninsula. Jolly  nearly an island. Couldn't it have been made an island since our time? Somebody has dug  a channel."  
"But half a moment!" said Edmund. "You keep on saying since our time. But it's only a  year ago since we came back from Narnia. And you want to make out that in one year  castles have fallen down, and great forests have grown up, and little trees we saw planted  ourselves have turned into a big old orchard, and goodness knows what else. It's all  impossible."  
"There's one thing," said Lucy. "If this is Cair Paravel there ought to be a door at this end  of the dais. In fact we ought to be sitting with our backs against it at this moment. You  know - the door that led down to the treasure chamber."  
"I suppose there isn't a door," said Peter, getting up.  
The wall behind them was a mass of ivy.  
"We can soon find out," said Edmund, taking up one of the sticks that they had laid ready  for putting on the fire. He began beating the ivied wall. Tap-tap went the stick against the  stone; and again, tap-tap; and then, all at once, boomboom, with a quite different sound, a  hollow, wooden sound.  
"Great Scott!" said Edmund.  
"We must clear this ivy away," said Peter.  
 
 "Oh, do let's leave it alone," said Susan. "We can try it in the morning. If we've got to  spend the night here I don't want an open door at my back and a great big black hole that  anything might come out of, besides the draught and the damp. And it'll soon be dark."  
"Susan! How can you?" said Lucy with a reproachful glance. But both the boys were too  much excited to take any notice of Susan's advice. They worked at the ivy with their  hands and with Peter's pocket-knife till the knife broke. After that they used Edmund's.  Soon the whole place where they had been sitting was covered with ivy; and at last they  had the door cleared.  
"Locked, of course," said Peter.  
"But the wood's all rotten," said Edmund. "We can pull it to bits in no time, and it will  make extra firewood. Come on."  
It took them longer than they expected and, before they had done, the great hall had  grown dusky and the first star or two had come out overhead. Susan was not the only one  who felt a slight shudder as the boys stood above the pile of splintered wood, rubbing the  dirt off their hands and staring into the cold, dark opening they had made.  
"Now for a torch," said Peter.  
"Oh, what is the good?" said Susan. "And as Edmund said -"  
"I'm not saying it now," Edmund interrupted. "I still don't understand, but we can settle  that later. I suppose you're coming down, Peter?"  
"We must," said Peter. "Cheer up, Susan. It's no good behaving like kids now that we are  back in Narnia.  
You're a Queen here. And anyway no one could go to sleep with a mystery like this on  their minds."  
They tried to use long sticks as torches but this was not a success. If you held them with  the lighted end up they went out, and if you held them the other way they scorched your  hand and the smoke got in your eyes. In the end they had to use Edmund's electric torch;  luckily it had been a birthday present less than a week ago and the battery was almost  new. He went first, with the light. Then came Lucy, then Susan, and Peter brought up the  rear.  
"I've come to the top of the steps," said Edmund.  
"Count them," said Peter.  
"One - two - three," said Edmund, as he went cautiously down, and so up to sixteen.  "And this is the bottom," he shouted back.    
"Then it really must be Cair Paravel," said Lucy. "There were sixteen." Nothing more  was said till all four were standing in a knot together at the foot of the stairway. Then  Edmund flashed his torch slowly round.  
"O - o - o - oh!!" said all the children at once.  
For now all knew that it was indeed the ancient treasure chamber of Cair Paravel where  they had once reigned as Kings and Queens of Narnia. There was a kind of path up the  middle (as it might be in a greenhouse), and along each side at intervals stood rich suits  of armour, like knights guarding the treasures. In between the suits of armour, and on  each side of the path, were shelves covered with precious things - necklaces and arm  rings and finger rings and golden bowls and dishes and long tusks of ivory, brooches and  coronets and chains of gold, and heaps of unset stones lying piled anyhow as if they were  marbles or potatoes - diamonds, rubies, carbuncles, emeralds, topazes, and amethysts.  Under the shelves stood great chests of oak strengthened with iron bars and heavily  padlocked. And it was bitterly cold, and so still that they could hear themselves  breathing, and the treasures were so covered with dust that unless they had realized where  they were and remembered most of the things, they would hardly have known they were  treasures. There was something sad and a little frightening about the place, because it all  seemed so forsaken and long ago. That was why nobody said anything for at least a  minute.  
Then, of course, they began walking about and picking things up to look at. It was like  meeting very old friends. If you had been there you would have heard them saying things  like, "Oh look! Our coronation rings - do you remember first wearing this? - Why, this is  the little brooch we all thought was lost - I say, isn't that the armour you wore in the great  tournament in the Lone Islands? - do you remember the dwarf making that for me? - do  you remember drinking out of that horn? - do you remember, do you remember?"  
But suddenly Edmund said, "Look here. We mustn't waste the battery: goodness knows  how often we shall need it. Hadn't we better take what we want and get out again?"  
"We must take the gifts," said Peter. For long ago at a Christmas in Narnia he and Susan  and Lucy had been given certain presents which they valued more than their whole  kingdom. Edmund had had no gift, because he was not with them at the time. (This was  his own fault, and you can read about it in the other book.)  
They all agreed with Peter and walked up the path to the wall at the far end of the  treasure chamber, and there, sure enough, the gifts were still hanging. Lucy's was the  smallest for it was only a little bottle. But the bottle was made of diamond instead of  glass, and it was still more than half full of the magical cordial which would heal almost  every wound and every illness. Lucy said nothing and looked very solemn as she took her  gift down from its place and slung the belt over her shoulder and once more felt the bottle  at her side where it used to hang in the old days. Susan's gift had been a bow and arrows    
 and a horn. The bow was still there, and the ivory quiver, full of wellfeathered arrows,  but - "Oh, Susan," said Lucy. "Where's the horn?"  
"Oh bother, bother, bother," said Susan after she had thought for a moment. "I remember  now. I took it with me the last day of all, the day we went hunting the White Stag. It must  have got lost when we blundered back into that other place - England, I mean."  
Edmund whistled. It was indeed a shattering loss; for this was an enchanted horn and,  whenever you blew it, help was certain to come to you, wherever you were.  
"Just the sort of thing that might come in handy in a place like this," said Edmund.  
"Never mind," said Susan, "I've still got the bow." And she took it.  
"Won't the string be perished, Su?" said Peter.  
But whether by some magic in the air of the treasure chamber or not, the bow was still in  working order. Archery and swimming were the things Susan was good at. In a moment  she had bent the bow and then she gave one little pluck to the string. It twanged: a  chirruping twang that vibrated through the whole room. And that one small noise brought  back the old days to the children's minds more than anything that had happened yet. All  the battles and hunts and feasts came rushing into their heads together.  
Then she unstrung the bow again and slung the quiver at her side.  
Next, Peter took down his gift - the shield with the great red lion on it, and the royal  sword. He blew, and rapped them on the floor, to get off the dust. He fitted the shield on  his arm and slung the sword by his side. He was afraid at first that it might be rusty and  stick to the sheath. But it was not so. With one swift motion he drew it and held it up,  shining in the torchlight.  
"It is my sword Rhindon," he said; "with it I killed the Wolf." There was a new tone in  his voice, and the others all felt that he was really Peter the High King again. Then, after  a little pause, everyone remembered that they must save the battery.  
They climbed the stair again and made up a good fire and lay down close together for  warmth. The ground was very hard and uncomfortable, but they fell asleep in the end.  

CHAPTER THREE  
THE DWARF  
 
 THE worst of sleeping out of doors is that you wake up so dreadfully early. And when  you wake you have to get up because the ground is so hard that you are uncomfortable.  And it makes matters worse if there is nothing but apples for breakfast and you have had  nothing but apples for supper the night before. When Lucy had said - truly enough that it  was a glorious morning, there did not seem to be anything else nice to be said. Edmund  said what everyone was feeling, "We've simply got to get off this island."   
When they had drunk from the well and splashed their faces they all went down the  stream again to the shore and stared at the channel which divided them from the  mainland.  
"We'll have to swim," said Edmund.  
"It would be all right for Su," said Peter (Susan had won prizes for swimming at school).  "But I don't know about the rest of us." By "the rest of us" he really meant Edmund who  couldn't yet do two lengths at the school baths, and Lucy, who could hardly swim at all.  
"Anyway," said Susan, "there may be currents. Father says it's never wise to bathe in a  place you don't know."  
"But, Peter," said Lucy, "look here. I know I can't swim for nuts at home - in England, I  mean. But couldn't we all swim long ago - if it was long ago - when we were Kings and  Queens in Narnia? We could ride then too, and do all sorts of things. Don't you think -?"  
"Ah, but we were sort of grown-up then," said Peter.  
"We reigned for years and years and learned to do things. Aren't we just back at our  proper ages again now?"  
"Oh!" said Edmund in a voice which made everyone stop talking and listen to him.  
"I've just seen it all," he said.  
"Seen what?" asked Peter.  
"Why, the whole thing," said Edmund. "You know what we were puzzling about last  night, that it was only a year ago since we left Narnia but everything looks as if no one  had lived in Cair Paravel for hundreds of years? Well, don't you see? You know that,  however long we seemed to have lived in Narnia, when we got back through the  wardrobe it seemed to have taken no time at all?"  
"Go on," said Susan. "I think I'm beginning to understand."  
 
 "And that means," continued Edmund, "that, once you're out of Narnia, you have no idea  how Narnian time is going. Why shouldn't hundreds of years have gone past in Narnia  while only one year has passed for us in England?"  
"By Jove, Ed," said Peter. "I believe you've got it. In that sense it really was hundreds of  years ago that we lived in Cair Paravel. And now we're coming back to Narnia just as if  we were Crusaders or Anglo-Saxons or Ancient Britons or someone coming back to  modern England?"  
"How excited they'll be to see us -" began Lucy, but at the same moment everyone else  said, "Hush!" or "Look!" For now something was happening.  
There was a wooded point on the mainland a little to their right, and they all felt sure that  just beyond that point must be the mouth of the river. And now, round that point there  came into sight a boat. When it had cleared the point, it turned and began coming along  the channel towards them. There were two people on board, one rowing, the other sitting  in the stern and holding a bundle that twitched and moved as if it were alive. Both these  people seemed to be soldiers. They had steel caps on their heads and light shirts of chain- mail. Their faces were bearded and hard. The children drew back from the beach into the  wood and watched without moving a finger.  
"This'll do," said the soldier in the stern when the boat had come about opposite to them.  
"What about tying a stone to his feet, Corporal?" said the other, resting on his oars.  
"Garn!" growled the other. "We don't need that, and we haven't brought one. He'll drown  sure enough without a stone, as long as we've tied the cords right." With these words he  rose and lifted his bundle. Peter now saw that it was really alive and was in fact a Dwarf,  bound hand and foot but struggling as hard as he could. Next moment he heard a twang  just beside his ear, and all at once the soldier threw up his arms, dropping the Dwarf into  the bottom of the boat, and fell over into the water. He floundered away to the far bank  and Peter knew that Susan's arrow had struck on his helmet. He turned and saw that she  was very pale but was already fitting a second arrow to the string. But it was never used.  As soon as he saw his companion fall, the other soldier, with a loud cry, jumped out of  the boat on the far side, and lie also floundered through the water (which was apparently  just in his depth) and disappeared into the woods of the mainland.  
"Quick! Before she drifts!" shouted Peter. He and Susan, fully dressed as they were,  plunged in, and before the water was up to their shoulders their hands were on the side of  the boat. In a few seconds they had hauled her to the bank and lifted the Dwarf out, and  Edmund was busily engaged in cutting his bonds with the pocket knife. (Peter's sword  would have been sharper, but a sword is very inconvenient for this sort of work because  you can't hold it anywhere lower than the hilt.) When at last the Dwarf was free, he sat  up, rubbed his arms and legs, and exclaimed:  
"Well, whatever they say, you don't feel like ghosts."    
Like most Dwarfs he was very stocky and deep-chested. He would have been about three  feet high if he had been standing up, and an immense beard and whiskers of coarse red  hair left little of his face to be seen except a beak-like nose and twinkling black eyes.  
"Anyway," he continued, "ghosts or not, you've saved my life and I'm extremely obliged  to you."  
"But why should we be ghosts?" asked Lucy.  
"I've been told all my life," said the Dwarf, "that these woods along the shore were as full  of ghosts as they were of trees. That's what the story is. And that's why, when they want  to get rid of anyone, they usually bring him down here (like they were doing with me)  and say they'll leave him to the ghosts. But I always wondered if they didn't really drown  'em or cut their throats. I never quite believed in the ghosts. But those two cowards  you've just shot believed all right. They were more frightened of taking me to my death  than I was of going!"  
"Oh," said Susan. "So that's why they both ran away."  
"Eh? What's that?" said the Dwarf.  
"They got away," said Edmund. "To the mainland."  
"I wasn't shooting to kill, you know," said Susan. She would not have liked anyone to  think she could miss at such a short range.  
"Hm," said the Dwarf. "That's not so good. That may mean trouble later on. Unless they  hold their tongues for their own sake."  
"What were they going to drown you for?" asked Peter.  
"Oh, I'm a dangerous criminal, I am," said the Dwarf cheerfully. "But that's a long story.  Meantime, I was wondering if perhaps you were going to ask me to breakfast? You've no  idea what an appetite it gives one, being executed."  
"There's only apples," said Lucy dolefully.  
"Better than nothing, but not so good as fresh fish," said the Dwarf. "It looks as if I'll  have to ask you to breakfast instead. I saw some fishing tackle in that boat. And anyway,  we must take her round to the other side of the island. We don't want anyone from the  mainland coming down and seeing her."  
"I ought to have thought of that myself," said Peter.  
 
 The four children and the Dwarf went down to the water's edge, pushed off the boat with  some difficulty, and scrambled aboard. The Dwarf at once took charge. The oars were of  course too big for him to use, so Peter rowed and the Dwarf steered them north along the  channel and presently eastward round the tip of the island. From here the children could  see right up the river, and all the bays and headlands of the coast beyond it. They thought  they could recognize bits of it, but the woods, which had grown up since their time, made  everything look very different.  
When they had come round into open sea on the east of the island, the Dwarf took to  fishing. They had an excellent catch of pavenders, a beautiful rainbow-coloured fish  which they all remembered eating in Cair Paravel in the old days. When they had caught  enough they ran the boat up into a little creek and moored her to a tree. The Dwarf, who  was a most capable person (and, indeed, though one meets bad Dwarfs, I never heard of a  Dwarf who was a fool), cut the fish open, cleaned them, and said:  
"Now, what we want next is some firewood."  
"We've got some up at the castle," said Edmund.  
The Dwarf gave a low whistle. "Beards and bedsteads!" he said. "So there really is a  castle, after all?"  
"It's only a ruin," said Lucy.  
The Dwarf stared round at all four of them with a very curious expression on his face.  "And who on earth - ?" he began, but then broke off and said, "No matter. Breakfast first.  But one thing before we go on. Can you lay your hand on your hearts and tell me I'm  really alive? Are you sure I wasn't drowned and we're not all ghosts together?"  
When they had all reassured him, the next question was how to carry the fish. They had  nothing to string them on and no basket. They had to use Edmund's hat in the end  because no one else had a hat. He would have made much more fuss about this if he had  not by now been so ravenously hungry.  
At first the Dwarf did not seem very comfortable in the castle. He kept looking round and  sniffing and saying, "H'm. Looks a bit spooky after all. Smells like ghosts, too." But he  cheered up when it came to lighting the fire and showing them how to roast the fresh  pavenders in the embers. Eating hot fish with no forks, and one pocket knife between five  people, is a messy business and there were several burnt fingers before the meal was  ended; but, as it was now nine o'clock and they had been up since five, nobody minded  the burns so much as you might have expected. When everyone had finished off with a  drink from the well and an apple or so, the Dwarf produced a pipe about the size of his  own arm, filled it, lit it, blew a great cloud of fragrant smoke, and said, "Now."  
"You tell us your story first," said Peter. "And then we'll tell you ours."  
 
 "Well," said the Dwarf, "as you've saved my life it is only fair you should have your own  way. But I hardly know where to begin. First of all I'm a messenger of King Caspian's."  
"Who's he?" asked four voices all at once.  
"Caspian the Tenth, King of Narnia, and long may he reign!" answered the Dwarf. "That  is to say, he ought to be King of Narnia and we hope he will be. At present he is only  King of us Old Narnians - "  
"What do you mean by old Narnians, please?" asked Lucy.  
"Why, that's us," said the Dwarf. "We're a kind of rebellion, I suppose."  
"I see," said Peter. "And Caspian is the chief Old Narnian."  
"Well, in a manner of speaking," said the Dwarf, scratching his head. "But he's really a  New Narnian himself, a Telmarine, if you follow me."  
"I don't," said Edmund.  
"It's worse than the Wars of the Roses," said Lucy.  
"Oh dear," said the Dwarf. "I'm doing this very badly. Look here: I think I'll have to go  right back to the beginning and tell you how Caspian grew up in his uncle's court and  how he comes to be on our side at all. But it'll be a long story."  
"All the better," said Lucy. "We love stories."  
So the Dwarf settled down and told his tale. I shall not give it to you in his words, putting  in all the children's questions and interruptions, because it would take too long and be  confusing, and, even so, it would leave out some points that the children only heard later.  But the gist of the story, as they knew it in the end, was as follows.  

CHAPTER FOUR  
THE DWARF TELLS OF PRINCE CASPIAN  
PRINCE CASPIAN lived in a great castle in the centre of Narnia with his uncle, Miraz,  the King of Narnia, and his aunt, who had red hair and was called Queen Prunaprismia.  His father and mother were dead and the person whom Caspian loved best was his nurse,  and though (being a prince) he had wonderful toys which would do almost anything but  talk, he liked best the last hour of the day when the toys had all been put back in their  cupboards and Nurse would tell him stories.    
He did not care much for his uncle and aunt, but about twice a week his uncle would send  for him and they would walk up and down together for half an hour on the terrace at the  south side of the castle. One day, while they were doing this, the King said to him,  
"Well, boy, we must soon teach you to ride and use a sword. You know that your aunt  and I have no children, so it looks as if you might have to be King when I'm gone. How  shall you like that, eh?"  
"I don't know, Uncle," said Caspian.  
"Don't know, eh?" said Miraz. "Why, I should like to know what more anyone could wish  for!"  
"All the same, I do wish," said Caspian.  
"What do you wish?" asked the King.  
"I wish - I wish - I wish I could have lived in the Old Days," said Caspian. (He was only  a very little boy at the time.)  
Up till now King Miraz had been talking in the tiresome way that some grown-ups have,  which makes it quite clear that they are not really interested in what you are saying, but  now he suddenly gave Caspian a very sharp look.  
"Eh? What's that?" he said. "What old days do you mean?"  
"Oh, don't you know, Uncle?" said Caspian. "When everything was quite different. When  all the animals could talk, and there were nice people who lived in the streams and the  trees. Naiads and Dryads they were called. And there were Dwarfs. And there were  lovely little Fauns in all the woods. They had feet like goats. And -"  
"That's all nonsense, for babies," said the King sternly. "Only fit for babies, do you hear?  You're getting too old for that sort of stuff. At your age you ought to be thinking of  battles and adventures, not fairy tales."  
"Oh, but there were battles and adventures in those days," said Caspian. "Wonderful  adventures. Once there was a White Witch and she made herself Queen of the whole  country. And she made it so that it was always winter. And then two boys and two girls  came from somewhere and so they killed the Witch and they were made Kings and  Queens of Narnia, and their names were Peter and Susan and Edmund and Lucy. And so  they reigned for ever so long and everyone had a lovely time, and it was all because of  Aslan -"  
 
 "Who's he?" said Miraz. And if Caspian had been a very little older, the tone of his  uncle's voice would have warned him that it would be wiser to shut up. But he babbled  on,  
"Oh, don't you know?" he said. "Aslan is the great Lion who comes from over the sea."  
"Who has been telling you all this nonsense?" said the King in a voice of thunder.  Caspian was frightened and said nothing.  
"Your Royal Highness," said King Miraz, letting go of Caspian's hand, which he had  been holding till now, "I insist upon being answered. Look me in the face. Who has been  telling you this pack of lies?"  
"N - Nurse," faltered Caspian, and burst into tears.  
"Stop that noise," said his uncle, taking Caspian by the shoulders and giving ham a shake.  "Stop it. And never let me catch you talking - or thinking either - about all those silly  stories again. There never were those Kings and Queens. How could there be two Kings  at the same time? And there's no such person as Aslan. And there are no such things as  lions. And there never was a time when animals could talk. Do you hear?"  
"Yes, Uncle," sobbed Caspian.  
"Then let's have no more of it," said the King. Then he called to one of the gentlemen-in- waiting who were standing at the far end of the terrace and said in a cold voice, "Conduct  His Royal Highness to his apartments and send His Royal Highness's nurse to me AT  ONCE."  
Next day Caspian found what a terrible thing he had done, for Nurse had been sent away  without even being allowed to say good-bye to him, and he was told he was to have a  Tutor.  
Caspian missed his nurse very much and shed many tears; and because he was so  miserable, he thought about the old stories of Narnia far more than before. He dreamed of  Dwarfs and Dryads every night and tried very hard to make the dogs and cats in the castle  talk to him. But the dogs only wagged their tails and the cats only purred.  
Caspian felt sure that he would hate the new Tutor, buy when the new Tutor arrived  about a week later he turns out to be the sort of person it is almost impossible not to like.  He was the smallest, and also the fattest, man Caspian had ever seen. He had a long,  silvery, pointed beard which came down to his waist, and his face, which was brown and  covered with wrinkles, looked very wise, very ugly, and very kind. His voice was grave  and his eyes were merry so that, until you got to know him really well, it was hard to  know when he was joking and when he was serious. His name was Doctor Cornelius.  
 
 Of all his lessons with Doctor Cornelius the one that Caspian liked best was History. Up  till now, except for Nurse's stories, he had known nothing about the History of Narnia,  and he was very surprised to learn that the royal family were newcomers in the country.  
"It was your Highness's ancestor, Caspian the First," said Doctor Cornelius, "who first  conquered Narnia and made it his kingdom. It was he who brought all your nation into  the country. You are not native Narnians at all. You are all Telmarines - that is, you all  came from the Land of Telmar, far beyond the Western Mountains. That is why Caspian  the First is called Caspian the Conqueror."  
"Please, Doctor," asked Caspian one day, "who lived in Narnia before we all came here  out of Telmar?"  
"No men - or very few - lived in Narnia before the Telmarines took it," said Doctor  Cornelius.  
"Then who did my great-great-grandcesters conquer?"  
"Whom, not who, your Highness," said Doctor Cornelius. "Perhaps it is time to turn from  History to Grammar."  
"Oh please, not yet!" said Caspian.  
"I mean, wasn't there a battle? Why is he called Caspian the Conqueror if there was  nobody to fight with him?"  
"I said there were very few men in Narnia," said the Doctor, looking at the little boy very  strangely through his great spectacles.  
For a moment Caspian was puzzled and then suddenly his heart gave a leap. "Do you  mean," he gasped, "that there were other things? Do you mean it was like in the stories?  Were there-?"  
"Hush!" said Doctor Cornelius, laying his head very close to Caspian's. "Not a word  more. Don't you know your Nurse was sent away for telling you about Old Narnia? The  King doesn't like it. If he found me telling you secrets, you'd be whipped and I should  have my head cut off."  
"But why?" asked Caspian.  
"1t is high time we turned to Grammar now," said Doctor Cornelius in a loud voice. "Will  your Royal Highness be pleased to open Pulverulentus Siccus at the fourth page of his  Grammatical garden or the Arbour of Accidence pleasantlie open'd to Tender Wits?"  
 
 After that it was all nouns and verbs till lunchtime, but I don't think Caspian learned  much. He was too excited. He felt sure that Doctor Cornelius would not have said so  much unless he meant to tell him more sooner or later.  
In this he was not disappointed. A few days later his Tutor said, "Tonight I am going to  give you a lesson in Astronomy. At dead of night two noble planets, Tarva and Alambil,  will pass within one degree of each other. Such a conjunction has not occurred for two  hundred years, and your Highness will not live to see it again. It will be best if you go to  bed a little earlier than usual. When the time of the conjunction draws near I will come  and wake you."  
This didn't seem to have anything to do with Old Narnia, which was what Caspian really  wanted to hear about, but getting up in the middle of the night is always interesting and  he was moderately pleased. When he went to bed that night, he thought at first that he  would not be able to sleep; but he soon dropped off and it seemed only a few minutes  before he felt someone gently shaking him.  
He sat up in bed and saw that the room was full of moonlight. Doctor Cornelius, muffled  in a hooded robe and holding a small lamp in his hand, stood by the bedside.  
Caspian remembered at once what they were going to do. He got up and put on some  clothes. Athough it was a summer night he felt colder than he had expected and was quite  glad when the Doctor wrapped him in a robe like his own and gave him a pair of warm,  soft buskins for his feet. A moment later, both muffled so that they could hardly be seen  in the dark corridors, and both shod so that they made almost no noise, master and pupil  left the room.  
Caspian followed the Doctor through many passages and up several staircases, and at  last, through a little door in a turret, they came out upon the leads. On one side were the  battlements, on the other a steep roof; below them, all shadowy and shimmery, the castle  gardens; above them, stars and moon. Presently they came to another door, which led into  the great central tower of the whole castle: Doctor Cornelius unlocked it and they began  to climb the dark winding stair of the tower. Caspian was becoming excited; he had never  been allowed up this stair before.  
It was long and steep, but when they came out on the roof of the tower and Caspian had  got his breath, he felt that it had been well worth it. Away on his right he could see, rather  indistinctly, the Western Mountains. On his left was the gleam of the Great River, and  everything was so quiet that he could hear the sound of the waterfall at Beaversdam, a  mile away. There was no difficulty in picking out the two stars they had come to see.  They hung rather low in the southern sky, almost as bright as two little moons and very  close together.  
"Are they going to have a collision?" he asked in an awestruck voice.  
 
 "Nay, dear Prince," said the Doctor (and he too spoke in a whisper). "The great lords of  the upper sky know the steps of their dance too well for that. Look well upon them. Their  meeting is fortunate and means some great good for the sad realm of Narnia. Tarva, the  Lord of Victory, salutes Alambil, the Lady of Peace. They are just coming to their  nearest."  
"It's a pity that tree gets in the way," said Caspian. "We'd really see better from the West  Tower, though it is not so high."  
Doctor Cornelius said nothing for about two minutes, but stood still with his eyes fixed  on Tarva and Alambil. Then he drew a deep breath and turned to Caspian.  
"There," he said. "You have seen what no man now alive has seen, nor will see again.  And you are right. We should have seen it even better from the smaller tower. I brought  you here for another reason."  
Caspian looked up at him, but the Doctor's hood concealed most of his face.  
"The virtue of this tower," said Doctor Cornelius, "is that we have six empty rooms  beneath us, and a long stair, and the door at the bottom of the stair is locked. We cannot  be overheard."  
"Are you going to tell me what you wouldn't tell me the other day?" said Caspian.  
"I am," said the Doctor. "But remember. You and I must never talk about these things  except here - on the very top of the Great Tower."  
"No. That's a promise," said Caspian. "But do go on, please."  
"Listen," said the Doctor. "All you have heard about Old Narnia is true. It is not the land  of Men. It is the country of Aslan, the country of the Waking Trees and Visible Naiads,  of Fauns and Satyrs, of Dwarfs and Giants, of the gods and the Centaurs, of Talking  Beasts. It was against these that the first Caspian fought. It is you Telmarines who  silenced the beasts and the trees and the fountains, and who killed and drove away the  Dwarfs and Fauns, and are now trying to cover up even the memory of them. The King  does not allow them to be spoken of."  
"Oh, I do wish we hadn't," said Caspian. "And I am glad it was all true, even if it is all  over."  
"Many of your race wish that in secret," said Doctor Cornelius.  
"But, Doctor," said Caspian, "why do you say my race? After all, I suppose you're a  Telmarine too."  
"Am I?" said the Doctor.    
"Well, you're a Man anyway," said Caspian.  
"Am I?" repeated the Doctor in a deeper voice, at the same moment throwing back his  hood so that Caspian could see his face clearly in the moonlight.  
All at once Caspian realized the truth and felt that he ought to have realized it long  before. Doctor Cornelius was so small, and so fat, and had such a very long beard. Two  thoughts came into his head at the same moment. One was a thought of terror - "He's not  a real man, not a man at all, he's a Dwarf, and he's brought me up here to kill me." The  other was sheer delight - "There are real Dwarfs still, and I've seen one at last."  
"So you've guessed it in the end," said Doctor Cornelius. "Or guessed it nearly right. I'm  not a pure Dwarf. I have human blood in me too. Many Dwarfs escaped in the great  battles and lived on, shaving their beards and wearing highheeled shoes and pretending to  be men. They have mixed with your Telmarines. I am one of those, only a halfDwarf, and  if any of my kindred, the true Dwarfs, are still alive anywhere in the world, doubtless  they would despise me and call me a traitor. But never in all these years have we  forgotten our own people and all the other happy creatures of Narnia, and the long-lost  days of freedom."  
"I'm - I'm sorry, Doctor," said Caspian. "It wasn't my fault, you know."  
"I am not saying these things in blame of you, dear Prince," answered the Doctor. "You  may well ask why I say them at all. But I have two reasons. Firstly, because my old heart  has carried these secret memories so long that it aches with them and would burst if I did  not whisper them to you. But secondly, for this: that when you become King you may  help us, for I know that you also, Telmarine though you are, love the Old Things."  
"I do, I do," said Caspian. "But how can I help?"  
"You can be kind to the poor remnants of the Dwarf people, like myself. You can gather  learned magicians and try to find a way of awaking the trees once more. You can search  through all the nooks and wild places of the land to see if any Fauns or Talking Beasts or  Dwarfs are perhaps still alive in hiding."  
"Do you think there are any?" asked Caspian eagerly.  
"I don't know - I don't know," said the Doctor with a deep sigh. "Sometimes I am afraid  there can't be. I have been looking for traces of them all my life. Sometimes I have  thought I heard a Dwarf-drum in the mountains. Sometimes at night, in the woods, I  thought I had caught a glimpse of Fauns and Satyrs dancing a long way off; but when I  came to the place, there was never anything there. I have often despaired; but something  always happens to start me hoping again. I don't know. But at least you can try to be a  King like the High King Peter of old, and not like your uncle."  
 
 "Then it's true about the Kings and Queens too, and about the White Witch?" said  Caspian.  
"Certainly it is true," said Cornelius. "Their reign was the Golden Age in Narnia and the  land has never forgotten them."  
"Did they live in this castle, Doctor?"  
"Nay, my dear," said the old man. "This castle is a thing of yesterday. Your great-great- grandfather built it. But when the two sons of Adam and the two daughters of Eve were  made Kings and Queens of Narnia by Aslan himself, they lived in the castle of Cair  Paravel. No man alive has seen that blessed place and perhaps even the ruins of it have  now vanished. But we believe it was far from here, down at the mouth of the Great River,  on the very shore of the sea."  
"Ugh!" said Caspian with a shudder. "Do you mean in the Black Woods? Where all the -  the - you know, the ghosts live?"  
"Your Highness speaks as you have been taught," said the Doctor. "But it is all lies.  There are no ghosts there. That is a story invented by the Telmarines. Your Kings are in  deadly fear of the sea because they can never quite forget that in all stories Aslan comes  from over the sea. They don't want to go near it and they don't want anyone else to go  near it. So they have let great woods grow up to cut their people off from the coast. But  because they have quarrelled with the trees they are afraid of the woods. And because  they are afraid of the woods they imagine that they are full of ghosts. And the Kings and  great men, hating both the sea and the wood, partly believe these stories, and partly  encourage them. They feel safer if no one in Narnia dares to go down to the coast and  look out to sea towards Aslan's land and the morning and the eastern end of the world."  
There was a deep silence between them for a few minutes. Then Doctor Cornelius said,  "Come. We have been here long enough. It is time to go down and to bed."  
"Must we?" said Caspian. "I'd like to go on talking about these things for hours and hours  and hours."  
"Someone might begin looking for us, if we did that," said Doctor Cornelius.  

CHAPTER FIVE  
CASPIAN'S ADVENTURE IN THE MOUNTAINS  
AFTER this, Caspian and his Tutor had many more secret conversations on the top of the  Great Tower, and at each conversation Caspian learned more about Old Narnia, so that    
 thinking and dreaming about the old days, and longing that they might come back, filled  nearly all his spare hours. But of course he had not many hours to spare, for now his  education was beginning in earnest. He learned sword-fighting and riding, swimming and  diving, how to shoot with the bow and play on the recorder and the theorbo, how to hunt  the stag and cut him up when he was dead, besides Cosmography, Rhetoric, Heraldry,  Versification, and of course History, with a little Law, Physic, Alchemy, and Astronomy.  Of Magic he learned only the theory, for Doctor Cornelius said the practical part was not  proper study for princes. "And I myself," he added, "am only a very imperfect magician  and can do only the smallest experiments." Of Navigation ("Which is a noble and  heroical art," said the Doctor) he was taught nothing, because King Miraz disapproved of  ships and the sea.  
He also learned a great deal by using his own eyes and ears. As a little boy he had often  wondered why he disliked his aunt, Queen Prunaprismia; he now saw that it was because  she disliked him. He also began to see that Narnia was an unhappy country. The taxes  were high and the laws were stern and Miraz was a cruel man.  
After some years there came a time when the Queen seemed to be ill and there was a  great deal of bustle and pother about her in the castle and doctors came and the courtiers  whispered. This was in early summertime. And one night, while all this fuss was going  on, Caspian was unexpectedly wakened by Doctor Cornelius after he had been only a few  hours in bed.  
"Are we going to do a little Astronomy, Doctor?" said Caspian.  
"Hush!" said the Doctor. "Trust me and do exactly as I tell you. Put on all your clothes;  you have a long journey before you."  
Caspian was very surprised, but he had learned to have confidence in his Tutor and he  began doing what he was told at once. When he was dressed the Doctor said, "I have a  wallet for you. We must go into the next room and fill it with victuals from your  Highness's supper table."  
"My gentlemen-in-waiting will be there," said Caspian.  
"They are fast asleep and will not wake," said the Doctor. "I am a very minor magician  but I can at least contrive a charmed sleep."  
They went into the antechamber and there, sure enough, the two gentlemen-in-waiting  were, sprawling on chairs and snoring hard. Doctor Cornelius quickly cut up the remains  of a cold chicken and some slices of venison and put them, with bread and an apple or so  and a little flask of good wine, into the wallet which he then gave to Caspian. It fitted on  by a strap over Caspian's shoulder, like a satchel you would use for taking books to  school.  
"Have you your sword?" asked the Doctor.    
"Yes," said Caspian.  
"Then put this mantle over all to hide the sword and the wallet. That's right. And now we  must go to the Great Tower and talk."  
When they had reached the top of the Tower (it was a cloudy night, not at all like the  night when they had seen the conjunction of Tarva and Alambil) Doctor Cornelius said,  
"Dear Prince, you must leave this castle at once and go to seek your fortune in the wide  world. Your life is in danger here."  
"Why?" asked Caspian.  
"Because you are the true King of Narnia: Caspian the Tenth, the true son and heir of  Caspian the Ninth. Long life to your Majesty' - and suddenly, to Caspian's great surprise,  the little man dropped down on one knee and kissed his hand.  
"What does it all mean? I don't understand," said Caspian.  
"I wonder you have never asked me before," said the Doctor, "why, being the son of King  Caspian, you are not King Caspian yourself. Everyone except your Majesty knows that  Miraz is a usurper. When he first began to rule he did not even pretend to be the King: he  called himself Lord Protector. But then your royal mother died, the good Queen and the  only Telmarine who was ever kind to me. And then, one by one, all the great lords, who  had known your father, died or disappeared. Not by accident, either. Miraz weeded them  out. Belisar and Uvilas were shot with arrows on a hunting party: by chance, it was  pretended. All the great house of the Passarids he sent to fight giants on the northern  frontier till one by one they fell. Arlian and Erimon and a dozen more he executed for  treason on a false charge. The two brothers of Beaversdam he shut up as madmen. And  finally he persuaded the seven noble lords, who alone among all the Telmarines did not  fear the sea, to sail away and look for new lands beyond the Eastern Ocean, and, as he  intended, they never came back. And when there was no one left who could speak a word  for you, then his flatterers (as he had instructed them) begged him to become King. And  of course he did."  
"Do you mean he now wants to kill me too?" said Caspian.  
"That is almost certain," said Doctor Cornelius.  
"But why now?" said Caspian. "I mean, why didn't he do it long ago if he wanted to? And  what harm have I done him?"  
"He has changed his mind about you because of something that happened only two hours  ago. The Queen has had a son."  
 
 "I don't see what that's got to do with it," said Caspian.  
"Don't see!" exclaimed the Doctor. "Have all my lessons in History and Politics taught  you no more than that? Listen. As long as he had no children of his own, he was willing  enough that you should be King after he died. He may not have cared much about you,  but he would rather you should have the throne than a stranger. Now that he has a son of  his own he will want his own son to be the next King. You are in the way. He'll clear you  out of the way."  
"Is he really as bad as that?" said Caspian. "Would he really murder me?"  
"He murdered your Father," said Doctor Cornelius.  
Caspian felt very queer and said nothing.  
"I can tell you the whole story," said the Doctor. "But not now. There is no time. You  must fly at once."  
"You'll come with me?" said Caspian.  
"I dare not," said the Doctor. "It would make your danger greater. Two are more easily  tracked than one. Dear Prince, dear King Caspian, you must be very brave. You must go  alone and at once. Try to get across the southern border to the court of King Nain of  Archenland. He will be good to you."  
"Shall I never see you again?" said Caspian in a quavering voice.  
"I hope so, dear King," said the Doctor. "What friend have I in the wide world except  your Majesty? And I have a little magic. But in the meantime, speed is everything. Here  are two gifts before you go. This is a little purse of gold alas, all the treasure in this castle  should be your own by rights. And here is something far better."  
He put in Caspian's hands something which he could hardly see but which he knew by  the feel to be a horn.  
"That," said Doctor Cornelius, "is the greatest and most sacred treasure of Narnia. Many  terrors I endured, many spells did I utter, to find it, when I was still young. It is the magic  horn of Queen Susan herself which she left behind her when she vanished from Narnia at  the end of the Golden Age. It is said that whoever blows it shall have strange help - no  one can say how strange. It may have the power to call Queen Lucy and King Edmund  and Queen Susan and High King Peter back from the past, and they will set all to rights.  It may be that it will call up Asian himself. Take it, King Caspian: but do not use it  except at your greatest need. And now, haste, haste, haste. The little door at the very  bottom of the Tower, the door into the garden, is unlocked. There we must part."  
"Can I get my horse Destrier?" said Caspian.    
"He is already saddled and waiting for you just at the corner of the orchard."  
During the long climb down the winding staircase Cornelius whispered many more words  of direction and advice. Caspian's heart was sinking, but he tried to take it all in. Then  came the fresh air in the garden, a fervent handclasp with the Doctor, a run across the  lawn, a welcoming whinny from Destrier, and so King Caspian the Tenth left the castle  of his fathers. Looking back, he saw fireworks going up to celebrate the birth of the new  prince.  
All night he rode southward, choosing by-ways and bridle paths through woods as long  as he was in country that he knew; but afterwards he kept to the high road. Destrier was  as excited as his master at this unusual journey, and Caspian, though tears had come into  his eyes at saying good-bye to Doctor Cornelius, felt brave and, in a way, happy, to think  that he was King Caspian riding to seek adventures, with his sword on his left hip and  Queen Susan's magic horn on his right. But when day came, with a sprinkle of rain, and  he looked about him and saw on every side unknown woods, wild heaths, and blue  mountains, he thought how large and strange the world was and felt frightened and small.  
As soon as it was full daylight he left the road and found an open grassy place amid a  wood where he could rest. He took off Destrier's bridle and let him graze, ate some cold  chicken and drank a little wine, and presently fell asleep. It was late afternoon when he  awoke. He ate a morsel and continued his journey, still southward, by many unfrequented  lanes. He was now in a land of hills, going up and down, but always more up than down.  From every ridge he could see the mountains growing bigger and blacker ahead. As the  evening closed in, he was riding their lower slopes. The wind rose. Soon rain fell in  torrents.  
Destrier became uneasy; there was thunder in the air. And now they entered a dark and  seemingly endless pine forest, and all the stories Caspian had ever heard of trees being  unfriendly to Man crowded into his mind. He remembered that he was, after all, a  Telmarine, one of the race who cut down trees wherever they could and were at war with  all wild things; and though he himself might be unlike other Telmarines, the trees could  not be expected to know this.  
Nor did they. The wind became a tempest, the woods roared and creaked all round them.  There came a crash. A tree fell right across the road just behind him. "Quiet, Destrier,  quiet!" said Caspian, patting his horse's neck; but he was trembling himself and knew that  he had escaped death by an inch. Lightning flashed and a great crack of thunder seemed  to break the sky in two just overhead.  
Destrier bolted in good earnest. Caspian was a good rider, but he had not the strength to  hold him back. He kept his seat, but he knew that his life hung by a thread during the  wild career that followed. Tree after tree rose up before them in the dusk and was only  just avoided. Then, almost too suddenly to hurt (and yet it did hurt him too) something  struck Caspian on the forehead and he knew no more.    
When he came to himself he was lying in a firelit place with bruised limbs and a bad  headache. Low voices were speaking close at hand.  
"And now," said one, "before it wakes up we must decide what to do with it."  
"Kill it," said another. "We can't let it live. It would betray us."  
"We ought to have killed it at once, or else let it alone," said a third voice. "We can't kill  it now. Not after we've taken it in and bandaged its head and all. It would be murdering a  guest."  
"Gentlemen," said Caspian in a feeble voice, "whatever you do to me, I hope you will be  kind to my poor horse."  
"Your horse had taken flight long before we found you," said the first voice - a curiously  husky, earthy voice, as Caspian now noticed.  
"Now don't let it talk you round with its pretty words," said the second voice. "I still say-"  
"Horns and halibuts!" exclaimed the third voice. "Of course we're not going to murder it.  For shame, Nikabrik. What do you say, Trufflehunter? What shall we do with it?"  
"I shall give it a drink," said the first voice, presumably Trufflehunter's. A dark shape  approached the bed. Caspian felt an arm slipped gently under his shoulders - if it was  exactly an arm. The shape somehow seemed wrong. The face that bent towards him  seemed wrong too. He got the impression that it was very hairy and very long nosed, and  there were odd white patches on each side of it. "It's a mask of some sort," thought  Caspian. "Or perhaps I'm in a fever and imagining it all." A cupful of something sweet  and hot was set to his lips and he drank. At that moment one of the others poked the fire.  A blaze sprang up and Caspian almost screamed with the shock as the sudden light  revealed the face that was looking into his own. It was not a man's face but a badger's,  though larger and friendlier and more intelligent than the face of any badger he had seen  before. And it had certainly been talking. He saw, too, that he was on a bed of heather, in  a cave. By the fire sat two little bearded men, so much wilder and shorter and hairier and  thicker than Doctor Cornelius that he knew them at once for real Dwarfs, ancient Dwarfs  with not a drop of human blood in their veins. And Caspian knew that he had found the  Old Narnians at last. Then his head began to swim again.  
In the next few days he learned to know them by names. The Badger was called  Trufflehunter; he was the oldest and kindest of the three. The Dwarf who had wanted to  kill Caspian was a sour Black Dwarf (that is, his hair and beard were black, and thick and  hard like horsehair). His name was Nikabrik. The other Dwarf was a Red Dwarf with hair  rather like a Fox's and he was called Trumpkin.  
 
 "And now," said Nikabrik on the first evening when Caspian was well enough to sit up  and talk, "we still have to decide what to do with this Human. You two think you've done  it a great kindess by not letting me kill it. But I suppose the upshot is that we have to keep  it a prisoner for life. I'm certainly not going to let it go alive - to go back to its own kind  and betray us all."  
"Bulbs and bolsters! Nikabrik," said Trumpkin. "Why need you talk so unhandsomely? It  isn't the creature's fault that it bashed its head against a tree outside our hole. And I don't  think it looks like a traitor."  
"I say," said Caspian, "you haven't yet found out whether I want to go back. I don't. I  want to stay with you - if you'll let me. I've been looking for people like you all my life."  
"That's a likely story," growled Nikabrik. "You're a Telmarine and a Human, aren't you?  Of course you want to go back to your own kind."  
"Well, even if I did, I couldn't," said Caspian. "I was flying for my life when I had my  accident. The King wants to kill me. If you'd killed me, you'd have done the very thing to  please him."  
"Well now," said Trufflehunter, "you don't say so!"  
"Eh?" said Trumpkin. "What's that? What have you been doing, Human, to fall foul of  Miraz at your age?"  
"He's my uncle," began Caspian, when Nikabrik jumped up with his hand on his dagger.  
"There you are!" he cried. "Not only a Telmarine but close kin and heir to our greatest  enemy. Are you still mad enough to let this creature live?" He would have stabbed  Caspian then and there, if the Badger and Trumpkin had not got in the way and forced  him back to his seat and held him down.  
"Now, once and for all, Nikabrik," said Trumpkin. "Will you contain yourself, or must  Trufflehunter and I sit on your head?"  
Nikabrik sulkily promised to behave, and the other two asked Caspian to tell his whole  story. When he had done so there was a moment's silence.  
"This is the queerest thing I ever heard," said Trumpkin.  
"I don't like it," said Nikabrik. "I didn't know there were stories about us still told among  the Humans. The less they know about us the better. That old nurse, now. She'd better  have held her tongue. And it's all mixed up with that Tutor: a renegade Dwarf. I hate 'em.  I hate 'em worse than the Humans. You mark my words - no good will come of it.  
 
 "Don't you go talking about things you don't understand, Nikabrik," said Trufflehunter.  "You Dwarfs are as forgetful and changeable as the Humans themselves. I'm a beast, I  am, and a Badger what's more. We don't change. We hold on. I say great good will come  of it. This is the true King of Narnia we've got here: a true King, coming back to true  Narnia. And we beasts remember, even if Dwarfs forget, that Narnia was never right  except when a son of Adam was King."  
"Whistles and whirligigs! Trufflehunter," said Trumpkin. "You don't mean you want to  give the country to Humans?"  
"I said nothing about that," answered the Badger. "It's not Men's country (who should  know that better than me?) but it's a country for a man to be King of. We badgers have  long enough memories to know that. Why, bless us all, wasn't the High King Peter a  Man?"  
"Do you believe all those old stories?" asked Trumpkin.  
"I tell you, we don't change, we beasts," said Trufflehunter. "We don't forget. I believe in  the High King Peter and the rest that reigned at Cair Paravel, as firmly as I believe in  Aslan himself."  
"As firmly as that, I dare say," said Trumpkin. "But who believes in Aslan nowadays?"  
"I do," said Caspian. "And if I hadn't believed in him before, I would now. Back there  among the Humans the people who laughed at Aslan would have laughed at stories about  Talking Beasts and Dwarfs. Sometimes I did wonder if there really was such a person as  Aslan: but then sometimes I wondered if there were really people like you. Yet there you  are."  
"That's right," said Trufflehunter. "You're right, King Caspian. And as long as you will be  true to Old Narnia you shall be my King, whatever they say. Long life to your Majesty."  
"You make me sick, Badger," growled Nikabrik. "The High King Peter and the rest may  have been Men, but they were a different sort of Men. This is one of the cursed  Telmarines. He has hunted beasts for sport. Haven't you, now?" he added, rounding  suddenly on Caspian.  
"Well, to tell you the truth, I have," said Caspian. "But they weren't Talking Beasts."  
"It's all the same thing," said Nikabrik.  
"No, no, no," said Trufflehunter. "You know it isn't. You know very well that the beasts  in Narnia nowadays are different and are no more than the poor dumb, witless creatures  you'd find in Calormen or Telmar. They're smaller too. They're far more different from us  than the half-Dwarfs are from you."  
 
 There was a great deal more talk, but it all ended with the agreement that Caspian should  stay and even the promise that, as soon as he was able to go out, he should be taken to see  what Trumpkin called "the Others"; for apparently in these wild parts all sorts of  creatures from the Old Days of Narnia still lived on in hiding.  

CHAPTER SIX  
THE PEOPLE THAT LIVED IN HIDING  
Now began the happiest times that Caspian had ever known. On a fine summer morning  when the dew lay on the grass he set off with the Badger and the two Dwarfs, up through  the forest to a high saddle in the mountains and down on to their sunny southern slopes  where one looked across the green wolds of Archenland.  
"We will go first to the Three Bulgy Bears," said Trumpkin.  
They came in a glade to an old hollow oak tree covered with moss, and Trufflehunter  tapped with his paw three times on the trunk and there was no answer. Then he tapped  again and a woolly sort of voice from inside said, "Go away. It's not time to get up yet."  But when he tapped the third time there was a noise like a small earthquake from inside  and a sort of door opened and out came three brown bears, very bulgy indeed and  blinking their little eyes. And when everything had been explained to them (which took a  long time because they were so sleepy) they said, just as Trufflehunter had said, that a  son of Adam ought to be King of Narnia and all kissed Caspian - very wet, snuffly kisses  they were - and offered him some honey. Caspian did not really want honey, without  bread, at that time in the morning, but he thought it polite to accept. It took him a long  time afterwards to get unsticky.  
After that they went on till they came among tall beech trees and Trufflehunter called out,  "Pattertwig! Pattertwig! Pattertwig!" and almost at once, bounding down from branch to  branch till he was just above their heads, came the most magnificent red squirrel that  Caspian had ever seen. He was far bigger than the ordinary dumb squirrels which he had  sometimes seen in the castle gardens; indeed he was nearly the size of a terrier and the  moment you looked in his face you saw that he could talk. Indeed the difficulty was to  get him to stop talking, for, like all squirrels, he was a chatterer. He welcomed Caspian at  once and asked if he would like a nut and Caspian said thanks, he would. But as  Pattertwig went bounding away to fetch it, Trufflehunter whispered in Caspian's ear,  "Don't look. Look the other way. It's very bad manners among squirrels to watch anyone  going to his store or to look as if you wanted to know where it was." Then Pattertwig  came back with the nut and Caspian ate it and after that Pattertwig asked if he could take  any messages to other friends. "For I can go nearly everywhere without setting foot to  ground," he said. Trufflehunter and the Dwarfs thought this a very good idea and gave  Pattertwig messages to all sorts of people with queer names telling them all to come to a    
 feast and council on Dancing Lawn at midnight three nights ahead. "And you'd better tell  the three Bulgies too," added Trumpkin. "We forgot to mention it to them."  
Their next visit was to the Seven Brothers of Shuddering Wood. Trumpkin led the way  back to the saddle and then down eastward on the northern slope of the mountains till  they came to a very solemn place among rocks and fir trees. They went very quietly and  presently Caspian could feel the ground shake under his feet as if someone were  hammering down below. Trumpkin went to a flat stone about the size of the top of a  water-butt, and stamped on it with his foot. After a long pause it was moved away by  someone or something underneath, and there was a dark, round hole with a good deal of  heat and steam coming out of it and in the middle of the hole the head of a Dwarf very  like Trumpkin himself. There was a long talk here and the dwarf seemed more suspicious  than the Squirrel or the Bulgy Bears had been, but in the end the whole party were invited  to come down. Caspian found himself descending a dark stairway into the earth, but  when he came to the bottom he saw firelight. It was the light of a furnace. The whole  place was a smithy. A subterranean stream ran past on one side of it. Two Dwarfs were at  the bellows, another was holding a piece of red-hot metal on the anvil with a pair of  tongs, a fourth was hammering it, and two, wiping their horny little hands on a greasy  cloth, were coming forward to meet the visitors. It took some time to satisfy them that  Caspian was a friend and not an enemy, but when they did, they all cried, "Long live the  King," and their gifts were noble - mail shirts and helmets and swords for Caspian and  Trumpkin and Nikabrik. The Badger could have had the same if he had liked, but he said  he was a beast, he was, and if his claws and teeth could not keep his skin whole, it wasn't  worth keeping. The workmanship of the arms was far finer than any Caspian had ever  seen, and he gladly accepted the Dwarf-made sword instead of his own, which looked, in  comparison, as feeble as a toy and as clumsy as a stick. The seven brothers (who were all  Red Dwarfs) promised to come to the feast at Dancing Lawn.  
A little farther on, in a dry, rocky ravine they reached the cave of five Black Dwarfs.  They looked suspiciously at Caspian, but in the end the eldest of them said, "If he is  against Miraz, we'll have him for King." And the next oldest said, "Shall we go farther up  for you, up to the crags? There's an Ogre or two and a Hag that we could introduce you  to, up there."  
"Certainly not," said Caspian.  
"I should think not, indeed," said Trufflehunter. "We want none of that sort on our side."  Nikabrik disagreed with this, but Trumpkin and the Badger overruled him. It gave  Caspian a shock to realize that the horrible creatures out of the old stories, as well as the  nice ones, had some descendants in Narnia still.  
"We should not have Aslan for friend if we brought in that rabble," said Trufflehunter as  they came away from the cave of the Black Dwarfs.  
"Oh, Aslan!" said Trumpkin, cheerily but contemptuously. "What matters much more is  that you wouldn't have me."    
"Do you believe in Aslan?" said Caspian to Nikabrik.  
"I'll believe in anyone or anything," said Nikabrik, "that'll batter these cursed Telmarine  barbarians to pieces or drive them out of Narnia. Anyone or anything, Aslan or the White  Witch, do you understand?"  
"Silence, silence," said Trufflehunter. "You do not know what you are saying. She was a  worse enemy than Miraz and all his race."  
"Not to Dwarfs, she wasn't," said Nikabrik.  
Their next visit was a pleasanter one. As they came lower down, the mountains opened  out into a great glen or wooded gorge with a swift river running at the bottom. The open  places near the river's edge were a mass of foxgloves and wild roses and the air was  buzzing with bees. Here Trufflehunter called again, "Glenstorm! Glenstorm!" and after a  pause Caspian heard the sound of hoofs. It grew louder till the valley trembled and at last,  breaking and trampling the thickets, there came in sight the noblest creatures that Caspian  had yet seen, the great Centaur Glenstorm and his three sons. His flanks were glossy  chestnut and the beard that covered his broad chest was goldenred. He was a prophet and  a star-gazer and knew what they had come about.  
"Long live the King," he cried. "I and my sons are ready for war. When is the battle to be  joined?"  
Up till now neither Caspian nor the others had really been thinking of a war. They had  some vague idea, perhaps, of an occasional raid on some Human farmstead or of  attacking a party of hunters, if it ventured too far into these southern wilds. But, in the  main, they had thought only of living to themselves in woods and caves and building up  an attempt at Old Narnia in hiding. As soon as Glenstorm had spoken everyone felt much  more serious.  
"Do you mean a real war to drive Miraz out of Narnia?" asked Caspian.  
"What else?" said the Centaur. "Why else does your Majesty go clad in mail and girt with  sword?"  
"Is it possible, Glenstorm?" said the Badger.  
"The time is ripe," said Glenstorm. "I watch the skies, Badger, for it is mine to watch, as  it is yours to remember. Tarva and Alambil have met in the halls of high heaven, and on  earth a son of Adam has once more arisen to rule and name the creatures. The hour has  struck. Our council at the Dancing Lawn must be a council of war." He spoke in such a  voice that neither Caspian nor the others hesitated for a moment: it now seemed to them  quite possible that they might win a war and quite certain that they must wage one.  
 
 As it was now past the middle of the day, they rested with the Centaurs and ate such food  as the centaurs provided cakes of oaten meal, and apples, and herbs, and wine, and  cheese.  
The next place they were to visit was quite near at hand, but they had to go a long way  round in order to avoid a region in which Men lived. It was well into the afternoon before  they found themselves in level fields, warm between hedgerows. There Trufflehunter  called at the mouth of a little hole in a green bank and out popped the last thing Caspian  expected - a Talking Mouse. He was of course bigger than a common mouse, well over a  foot high when he stood on his hind legs, and with ears nearly as long as (though broader  than) a rabbit's. His name was Reepicheep and he was a gay and martial mouse. He wore  a tiny little rapier at his side and twirled his long whiskers as if they were a moustache.  "There are twelve of us, Sire," he said with a dashing and graceful bow, "and I place all  the resources of my people unreservedly at your Majesty's disposal." Caspian tried hard  (and successfully) not to laugh, but he couldn't help thinking that Reepicheep and all his  people could very easily be put in a washing basket and carried home on one's back.  
It would take too long to mention all the creatures whom Caspian met that day - Clodsley  Shovel the Mole, the three Hardbiters (who were badgers like Trufflehunter), Camillo the  Hare, and Hogglestock the Hedgehog. They rested at last beside a well at the edge of a  wide and level circle of grass, bordered with tall elms which now threw long shadows  across it, for the sun was setting, the daisies closing, and the rooks flying home to bed.  Here they supped on food they had brought with them and Trumpkin lit his pipe  (Nikabrik was not a smoker).  
"Now," said the Badger, "if only we could wake the spirits of these trees and this well, we  should have done a good day's work."  
"Can't we?" said Caspian.  
"No," said Trufflehunter. "We have no power over them. Since the Humans came into the  land, felling forests and defiling streams, the Dryads and Naiads have sunk into a deep  sleep. Who knows if ever they will stir again? And that is a great loss to our side. The  Telmarines are horribly afraid of the woods, and once the Trees moved in anger, our  enemies would go mad with fright and be chased out of Narnia as quick as their legs  could carry them."  
"What imaginations you Animals have!" said Trumpkin, who didn't believe in such  things. "But why stop at Trees and Waters? Wouldn't it be even nicer if the stones started  throwing themselves at old Miraz?"  
The Badger only grunted at this, and after that there was such a silence that Caspian had  nearly dropped off to sleep when he thought he heard a faint musical sound from the  depth of the woods at his back. Then he thought it was only a dream and turned over  again; but as soon as his ear touched the ground he felt or heard (it was hard to tell  which) a faint beating or drumming. He raised his head. The beating noise at once    
 became fainter, but the music returned, clearer this time. It was like flutes. He saw that  Trufflehunter was sitting up staring into the wood. The moon was bright; Caspian had  been asleep longer than he thought. Nearer and nearer came the music, a tune wild and  yet dreamy, and the noise of many light feet, till at last, out from the wood into the  moonlight, came dancing shapes such as Caspian had been thinking of all his life. They  were not much taller than dwarfs, but far slighter and more graceful. Their curly heads  had little horns, the upper part of their bodies gleamed naked in the pale light, but their  legs and feet were those of goats.  
"Fauns!" cried Caspian, jumping up, and in a moment they were all round him. It took  next to no time to explain the whole situation to them and they accepted Caspian at once.  Before he knew what he was doing he found himself joining in the dance. Trumpkin,  with heavier and jerkier movements, did likewise and even Trufflehunter hopped and  lumbered about as best he could. Only Nikabrik stayed where he was, looking on in  silence. The Fauns footed it all round Caspian to their reedy pipes. Their strange faces,  which seemed mournful and merry all at once, looked into his; dozens of Fauns, Mentius  and Obentinus and Dumnus, Voluns, Voltinus, Girbius, Nimienus, Nausus, and Oscuns.  Pattertwig had sent them all.  
When Caspian awoke next morning he could hardly believe that it had not all been a  dream; but the grass was covered with little cloven hoof-marks.  

CHAPTER SEVEN  
OLD NARNIA IN DANGER  
THE place where they had met the Fauns was, of course, Dancing Lawn itself, and here  Caspian and his friends remained till the night of the great Council. To sleep under the  stars, to drink nothing but well water and to live chiefly on nuts and wild fruit, was a  strange experience for Caspian after his bed with silken sheets in a tapestried chamber at  the castle, with meals laid out on gold and silver dishes in the anteroom, and attendants  ready at his call. But he had never enjoyed himself more. Never had sleep been more  refreshing nor food tasted more savoury, and he began already to harden and his face  wore a kinglier look.  
When the great night came, and his various strange subjects came stealing into the lawn  by ones and twos and threes or by sixes and sevens - the moon then shining almost at her  full - his heart swelled as he saw their numbers and heard their greetings. All whom he  had met were there: Bulgy Bears and Red Dwarfs and Black Dwarfs, Moles and Badgers,  Hares and Hedgehogs, and others whom he had not yet seen - five Satyrs as red as foxes,  the whole contingent of Talking Mice, armed to the teeth and following a shrill trumpet,  some Owls, the Old Raven of Ravenscaur. Last of all (and this took Caspian's breath  away), with the Centaurs came a small but genuine Giant, Wimbleweather of Deadman's    
 Hill, carrying on his back a basketful of rather sea-sick Dwarfs who had accepted his  offer of a lift and were now wishing they had walked instead.  
The Bulgy Bears were very anxious to have the feast first and leave the council till  afterwards: perhaps till tomorrow. Reepicheep and his Mice said that councils and feasts  could both wait, and proposed storming Miraz in his own castle that very night.  Pattertwig and the other Squirrels said they could talk and eat at the same time, so why  not have the council and feast all at once? The Moles proposed throwing up  entrenchments round the Lawn before they did anything else. The Fauns thought it would  be better to begin with a solemn dance. The Old Raven, while agreeing with the Bears  that it would take too long to have a full council before supper, begged to be allowed to  give a brief address to the whole company. But Caspian and the Centaurs and the Dwarfs  overruled all these suggestions and insisted on holding a real council of war at once.  
When all the other creatures had been persuaded to sit down quietly in a great circle, and  when (with more difficulty) they had got Pattertwig to stop running to and fro and saying  "Silence! Silence, everyone, for the King's speech", Caspian, feeling a little nervous, got  up. "Narnians!" he began, but he never got any further, for at that very moment Camillo  the Hare said, "Hush! There's a Man somewhere near."  
They were all creatures of the wild, accustomed to being hunted, and they all became still  as statues. The beasts all turned their noses in the direction which Camillo had indicated.  
"Smells like Man and yet not quite like Man," whispered Trufflehunter.  
"It's getting steadily nearer," said Camillo.  
"Two badgers and you three Dwarfs, with your bows at the - ready, go softly off to meet  it," said Caspian.  
"We'll settle 'un," said a Black Dwarf grimly, fitting a shaft to his bowstring.  
"Don't shoot if it is alone," said Caspian. "Catch it."  
"Why?" asked the Dwarf.  
"Do as you're told," said Glenstorm the Centaur.  
Everyone waited in silence while the three Dwarfs and two Badgers trotted stealthily  across to the trees on the northwest side of the Lawn. Then came a sharp dwarfish cry,  "Stop! Who goes there?" and a sudden spring. A moment later a voice, which Caspian  knew well, could he heard saying, "All right, all right, I'm unarmed. Take my wrists if  you like, worthy Badgers, but don't bite right through them. I want to speak to the King."  
"Doctor Cornelius!" cried Caspian with joy, and rushed forward to greet his old tutor.  Everyone else crowded round.    
"Pah!" said Nikabrik. "A renegade Dwarf. A half-and-halfer! Shall I pass my sword  through its throat?"  
"Be quiet, Nikabrik," said Trumpkin. "The creature can't help its ancestry."  
"This is my greatest friend and the saviour of my life," said Caspian. "And anyone who  doesn't like his company may leave my army: at once. Dearest doctor, I am glad to see  you again. How ever did you find us out?"  
"By a little use of simple magic, your Majesty," said the Doctor, who was still puffing  and blowing from having walked so fast. "But there's no time to go into that now. We  must all fly from this place at once. You are already betrayed and Miraz is on the move.  Before midday tomorrow you will be surrounded."  
"Betrayed!" said Caspian. "And by whom?"  
"Another renegade Dwarf, no doubt," said Nikabrik.  
"By your horse Destrier," said Doctor Cornelius. "The poor brute knew no better. When  you were knocked off, of course, he went dawdling back to his stable in the castle. Then  the secret of your flight was known. I made myself scarce, having no wish to be  questioned about it in Miraz's torture chamber. I had a pretty good guess from my crystal  as to where I should find you. But all day - that was the day before yesterday - I saw  Miraz's tracking parties out in the woods. Yesterday I learned that his army is out. I don't  think some of your - um - pure-blooded Dwarfs have as much woodcraft as might be  expected. You've left tracks all over the place. Great carelessness. At any rate something  has warned Miraz that Old Narnia is not so dead as he had hoped, and he is on the move."  
"Hurrah!" said a very shrill and small voice from somewhere at the Doctor's feet. "Let  them come! All I ask is that the King will put me and my people in the front."  
"What on earth?" said Doctor Cornelius. "Has your Majesty got grasshoppers - or  mosquitoes - in your army?" Then after stooping down and peering carefully through his  spectacles, he broke into a laugh.  
"By the Lion," he swore, "it's a mouse. Signior Mouse, I desire your better acquaintance.  I am honoured by meeting so valiant a beast."  
"My friendship you shall have, learned Man," piped Reepicheep. "And any Dwarf - or  Giant - in the army who does not give you good language shall have my sword to reckon  with."  
"Is there time for this foolery?" asked Nikabrik. "What are our plans? Battle or flight?"  
 
 "Battle if need be," said Trumpkin. "But we are hardly ready for it yet, and this is no very  defensible place."  
"I don't like the idea of running away," said Caspian.  
"Hear him! Hear him!" said the Bulgy Bears. "Whatever we do, don't let's have any  running. Especially not before supper; and not too soon after it neither."  
"Those who run first do not always run last," said the Centaur. "And why should we let  the enemy choose our position instead of choosing it ourselves? Let us find a strong  place."  
"That's wise, your Majesty, that's wise," said Trufflehunter.  
"But where are we to go?" asked several voices.  
"Your Majesty," said Doctor Cornelius, "and all you variety of creatures, I think we must  fly east and down the river to the great woods. The Telmarines hate that region. They  have always been afraid of the sea and of something that may come over the sea. That is  why they have let the great woods grow up. If traditions speak true, the ancient Cair  Paravel was at the river-mouth. All that part is friendly to us and hateful to our enemies.  We must go to Aslan's How."  
"Aslan's How?" said several voices. "We do not know what it is."  
"It lies within the skirts of the Great Woods and it is a huge mound which Narnians raised  in very ancient times over a very magical place, where there stood - and perhaps still  stands - a very magical Stone. The Mound is all hollowed out within into galleries and  caves, and the Stone is in the central cave of all. There is room in the mound for all our  stores, and those of us who have most need of cover and are most accustomed to  underground life can be lodged in the caves. The rest of us can lie in the wood. At a pinch  all of us (except this worthy Giant) could retreat into the Mound itself, and there we  should be beyond the reach of every danger except famine."  
"It is a good thing we have a learned man among us," said Trufflehunter; but Trumpkin  muttered under his breath, "Soup and celery! I wish our leaders would think less about  these old wives' tales and more about victuals and arms." But all approved of Cornelius's  proposal and that very night, half an hour later, they were on the march. Before sunrise  they arrived at Aslan's How.  
It was certainly an awesome place, a round green hill on top of another hill, long since  grown over with trees, and one little, low doorway leading into it. The tunnels inside  were a perfect maze till you got to know them, and they were lined and roofed with  smooth stones, and on the stones, peering in the twilight, Caspian saw strange characters  and snaky patterns, and pictures in which the form of a Lion was repeated again and    
 again. It all seemed to belong to an even older Narnia than the Narnia of which his nurse  had told him.  
It was after they had taken up their quarters in and around the How that fortune began to  turn against them. King Miraz's scouts soon found their new lair, and he and his army  arrived on the edge of the woods. And as so often happens, the enemy turned out stronger  than they had reckoned. Caspian's heart sank as he saw company after company arriving.  And though Miraz's men may have been afraid of going into the wood, they were even  more afraid of Miraz, and with him in command they carried battle deeply into it and  sometimes almost to the How itself. Caspian and other captains of course made many  sorties into the open country. Thus there was fighting on most days and sometimes by  night as well; but Caspian's party had on the whole the worst of it.  
At last there came a night when everything had gone as badly as possible, and the rain  which had been falling heavily all day had ceased at nightfall only to give place to raw  cold. That morning Caspian had arranged what was his biggest battle yet, and all had  hung their hopes on it. He, with most of the Dwarfs, was to have fallen on the King's  right wing at daybreak, and then, when they were heavily engaged, Giant  Wimbleweather, with the Centaurs and some of the fiercest beasts, was to have broken  out from another place and endeavoured to cut the King's right off from the rest of the  army. But it had all failed. No one had warned Caspian (because no one in these later  days of  
Narnia remembered) that Giants are not at all clever. Poor Wimbleweather, though as  brave as a lion, was a true Giant in that respect. He had broken out at the wrong time and  from the wrong place, and both his party and Caspian's had suffered badly and done the  enemy little harm. The best of the Bears had been hurt, a Centaur terribly wounded, and  there were few in Caspian's party who had not lost blood. It was a gloomy company that  huddled under the dripping trees to eat their scanty supper.  
The gloomiest of all was Giant Wimbleweather. He knew it was all his fault. He sat in  silence shedding big tears which collected on the end of his nose and then fell off with a  huge splash on the whole bivouac of the Mice, who had just been beginning to get warm  and drowsy. They all jumped up, shaking the water out of their ears and wringing their  little blankets, and asked the Giant in shrill but forcible voices whether he thought they  weren't wet enough without this sort of thing. And then other people woke up and told the  Mice they had been enrolled as scouts and not as a concert party, and asked why they  couldn't keep quiet. And Wimbleweather tiptoed away to find some place where he could  be miserable in peace and stepped on somebody's tail and somebody (they said  afterwards it was a fox) bit him. And so everyone was out of temper.  
But in the secret and magical chamber at the heart of the How, King Caspian, with  Cornelius and the Badger and Nikabrik and Trumpkin, were at council. Thick pillars of  ancient workmanship supported the roof. In the centre was the Stone itself - a stone table,  split right down the centre, and covered with what had once been writing of some kind:  but ages of wind and rain and snow had almost worn them away in old times when the    
 Stone Table had stood on the hilltop, and the Mound had not yet been built above it. They  were not using the Table nor sitting round it: it was too magic a thing for any common  use. They sat on logs a little way from it, and between them was a rough wooden table,  on which stood a rude clay lamp lighting up their pale faces and throwing big shadows on  the walls.  
"If your Majesty is ever to use the Horn," said Trufflehunter, "I think the time has now  come." Caspian had of course told them of his treasure several days ago.  
"We are certainly in great need," answered Caspian. "But it is hard to be sure we are at  our greatest. Supposing there came an even worse need and we had already used it?"  
"By that argument," said Nikabrik, "your Majesty will never use it until it is too late."  
"I agree with that," said Doctor Cornelius.  
"And what do you think, Trumpkin?" asked Caspian.  
"Oh, as for me," said the Red Dwarf, who had been listening with complete indifference,  "your Majesty knows I think the Horn - and that bit of broken stone over there and your  great King Peter - and your Lion Aslan - are all eggs in moonshine. It's all one to me  when your Majesty blows the Horn. All I insist on is that the army is told nothing about  it. There's no good raising hopes of magical help which (as I think) are sure to be  disappointed."  
"Then in the name of Aslan we will wind Queen Susan's Horn," said Caspian.  
"There is one thing, Sire," said Doctor Cornelius, "that should perhaps be done first. We  do not know what form the help will take. It might call Aslan himself from oversea. But I  think it is more likely to call Peter the High King and his mighty consorts down from the  high past. But in either case, I do not think we can be sure that the help will come to this  very spot -"  
"You never said a truer word," put in Trumpkin.  
"I think," went on the learned man, "that they - or he will come back to one or other of  the Ancient Places of Narnia. This, where we now sit, is the most ancient and most  deeply magical of all, and here, I think, the answer is likeliest to come. But there are two  others. One Lantern Waste, up-river, west of Beaversdam, where the Royal Children first  appeared in Narnia, as the records tell The other is down at the river-mouth, where their  castle of Cair Paravel once stood. And if Aslan himself comes, that would be the best  place for meeting him too, for every story says that he is the son of the great Emperor- over-the-Sea, and over the sea he will pass. I should like very much to send messengers  to both places, to Lantern Waste and the river-mouth, to receive them - or him or it."  
 
 "Just as I thought," muttered Trumpkin. "The first result of all this foolery is not to bring  us help but to lose us two fighters."  
"Who would you think of sending, Doctor Cornelius?" asked Caspian.  
"Squirrels are best for getting through enemy country without being caught," said  Trufflehunter.  
"All our squirrels (and we haven't many)," said Nikabrik, "are rather flighty. The only  one I'd trust on a job like that would be Pattertwig."  
"Let it be Pattertwig, then," said King Caspian. "And who for our other messenger? I  know you'd go, Trufflehunter, but you haven't the speed. Nor you, Doctor Cornelius."  
"I won't go," said Nikabrik. "With all these Humans and beasts about, there must be a  Dwarf here to see that the Dwarfs are fairly treated."  
"Thimbles and thunderstorms!" cried Trumpkin in a rage. "Is that how you speak to the  King? Send me, Sire, I'll go."  
"But I thought you didn't believe in the Horn, Trumpkin," said Caspian.  
"No more I do, your Majesty. But what's that got to do with it? I might as well die on a  wild goose chase as die here. You are my King. I know the difference between giving  advice and taking orders. You've had my advice, and now it's the time for orders."   
"I will never forget this, Trumpkin," said Caspian. "Send for Pattertwig, one of you. And  when shall I blow the Horn?"  
"I would wait for sunrise, your Majesty," said Doctor Cornelius. "That sometimes has an  effect in operations of White Magic."  
A few minutes later Pattertwig arrived and had his task explained to him. As he was, like  many squirrels, full of courage and dash and energy and excitement and mischief (not to  say conceit), he no sooner heard it than he was eager to be off. It was arranged that he  should run for Lantern Waste while Trumpkin made the shorter journey to the river- mouth. After a hasty meal they both set off with the fervent thanks and good wishes of  the King, the Badger, and Cornelius.  

CHAPTER EIGHT  
HOW THEY LEFT THE ISLAND    
"AND so," said Trumpkin (for, as you have realized, it was he who had been telling all  this story to the four children, sitting on the grass in the ruined hall of Cair Paravel) -  "and so I put a crust or two in my pocket, left behind all weapons but my dagger, and  took to the woods in the grey of the morning. I'd been plugging away for many hours  when there came a sound that I'd never heard the like of in my born days. Eh, I won't  forget that. The whole air was full of it, loud as thunder but far longer, cool and sweet as  music over water, but strong enough to shake the woods. And I said to myself, `If that's  not the Horn, call me a rabbit.' And a moment later I wondered why he hadn't blown it  sooner-"  
"What time was it?" asked Edmund.  
"Between nine and ten of the clock," said Trumpkin.  
"Just when we were at the railway station!" said all the children, and looked at one  another with shining eyes.  
"Please go on," said Lucy to the Dwarf.  
"Well, as I was saying, I wondered, but I went on as hard as I could pelt. I kept on all  night - and then, when it was half light this morning, as if I'd no more sense than a Giant,  I risked a short cut across open country to cut off a big loop of the river, and was caught.  Not by the army, but by a pompous old fool who has charge of a little castle which is  Miraz's last stronghold towards the coast. I needn't tell you they got no true tale out of  me, but I was a Dwarf and that was enough. But, lobsters and lollipops! it is a good thing  the seneschal was a pompous fool. Anyone else would have run me through there and  then. But nothing would do for him short of a grand execution: sending me down `to the  ghosts in the full ceremonial way. And then this young lady", (he nodded at Susan) "does  her bit of archery and it was pretty shooting, let me tell you - and here we are. And  without my armour, for of course they took that." He knocked out and refilled his pipe.  
"Great Scott!" said Peter. "So it was the horn - your own horn, Su - that dragged us all off  that seat on the platform yesterday morning! I can hardly believe it; yet it all fits in."  
"I don't know why you shouldn't believe it," said Lucy, "if you believe in magic at all.  Aren't there lots of stories about magic forcing people out of one place - out of one world  - into another? I mean, when a magician in The Arabian Nights calls up a Jinn, it has to  come. We had to come, just like that."  
"Yes," said Peter, "I suppose what makes it feel so queer is that in the stories it's always  someone in our world who does the calling. One doesn't really think about where the  Jinn's coming from."  
 
 "And now we know what it feels like for the Jinn," said Edmund with a chuckle. "Golly!  It's a bit uncomfortable to know that we can be whistled for like that. It's worse than what  Father says about living at the mercy of the telephone."  
"But we want to be here, don't we," said Lucy, "if Aslan wants us?"  
"Meanwhile," said the Dwarf, "what are we to do? I suppose I'd better go back to King  Caspian and tell him no help has come."  
"No help?" said Susan. "But it has worked. And here we are."  
"Um - um - yes, to be sure. I see that," said the Dwarf, whose pipe seemed to be blocked  (at any rate he made himself very busy cleaning it). "But- well - I mean -"  
"But don't you yet see who we are?" shouted Lucy. "You are stupid."  
"I suppose you are the four children out of the old stories," said Trumpkin. "And I'm very  glad to meet you of course. And it's very interesting, no doubt. But - no offence?'- and he  hesitated again.  
"Do get on and say whatever you're going to say," said Edmund.  
"Well, then - no offence," said Trumpkin. "But, you know, the King and Trufflehunter  and Doctor Cornelius were expecting - well, if you see what I mean, help. To put it in  another way, I think they'd been imagining you as great warriors. As it is - we're awfully  fond of children and all that, but just at the moment, in the middle of a war but I'm sure  you understand."  
"You mean you think we're no good," said Edmund, getting red in the face.  
"Now pray don't be offended," interrupted the Dwarf. "I assure you, my dear little  friends-"  
"Little from you is really a bit too much," said Edmund, jumping up. "I suppose you don't  believe we won the Battle of Beruna? Well, you can say what you like about me because  I know -"  
"There's no good losing our tempers," said Peter. "Let's fit him out with fresh armour and  fit ourselves out from the treasure chamber, and have a talk after that."  
"I don't quite see the point -" began Edmund, but Lucy whispered in his ear, "Hadn't we  better do what Peter says? He is the High King, you know. And I think he has an idea."  So Edmund agreed and by the aid of his torch they all, including Trumpkin, went down  the steps again into the dark coldness and dusty splendour of the treasure house.  
 
 The Dwarf's eyes glistened as he saw the wealth that lay on the shelves (though he had to  stand on tiptoes to do so) and he muttered to himself, "It would never do to let Nikabrik  see this; never." They found easily enough a mail shirt for him, a sword, a helmet, a  shield, a bow and quiverful of arrows, all of dwarfish size. The helmet was of copper, set  with rubies, and there was gold on the hilt of the sword: Trumpkin had never seen, much  less carried, so much wealth in all his life. The children also put on mail shirts and  helmets; a sword and shield were found for Edmund and a bow for Lucy - Peter and  Susan were of course already carrying their gifts. As they came back up the stairway,  jingling in their mail, and already looking and feeling more like Narnians and less like  schoolchildren, the two boys were behind, apparently making some plan. Lucy heard  Edmund say, "No, let me do it. It will be more of a sucks for him if I win, and less of a  let-down for us all if I fail."  
"All right, Ed," said Peter.  
When they came out into the daylight Edmund turned to the Dwarf very politely and said,  "I've got something to ask you. Kids like us don't often have the chance of meeting a  great warrior like you. Would you have a little fencing match with me? It would be  frightfully decent."  
"But, lad," said Trumpkin, "these swords are sharp."  
"I know," said Edmund. "But I'll never get anywhere near you and you'll be quite clever  enough to disarm me without doing me any damage."  
"It's a dangerous game," said Trumpkin. "But since you make such a point of it, I'll try a  pass or two."  
Both swords were out in a moment and the three others jumped off the dais and stood  watching. It was well worth it. It was not like the silly fighting you see with broad swords  on the stage. It was not even like the rapier fighting which you sometimes see rather  better done. This was real broad-sword fighting. The great thing is to slash at your  enemy's legs and feet because they are the part that have no armour. And when he slashes  at yours you jump with both feet off the ground so that his blow goes under them. This  gave the Dwarf an advantage because Edmund, being much taller, had to be always  stooping. I don't think Edmund would have had a chance if he had fought Trumpkin  twenty-four hours earlier. But the air of Narnia had been working upon him ever since  they arrived on the island, and all his old battles came back to him, and his arms and  fingers remembered their old skill. He was King Edmund once more. Round and round  the two combatants circled, stroke after stroke they gave, and Susan (who never could  learn to like this sort of thing) shouted out, "Oh, do be careful." And then, so quickly that  no one (unless they knew, as Peter did) could quite see how it happened, Edmund flashed  his sword round with a peculiar twist, the Dwarf's sword flew out of his grip, and  Trumpkin was wringing his empty hand as you do after a "sting" from a cricket-bat.  
 
 "Not hurt, I hope, my dear little friend?" said Edmund, panting a little and returning his  own sword to its sheath.  
"I see the point," said Trumpkin drily. "You know a trick I never learned."  
"That's quite true," put in Peter. "The best swordsman in the world may be disarmed by a  trick that's new to him. I think it's only fair to give Trumpkin a chance at something else.  Will you have a shooting match with my sister? There are no tricks in archery, you  know."  
"Ah, you're jokers, you are," said the Dwarf. "I begin to see. As if I didn't know how she  can shoot, after what happened this morning. All the same, I'll have a try." He spoke  gruffly, but his eyes brightened, for he was a famous bowman among his own people.  
All five of them came out into the courtyard.  
"What's to be the target?" asked Peter.  
"I think that apple hanging over the wall on the branch there would do," said Susan.  
"That'll do nicely, lass," said Trumpkin. "You mean the yellow one near the middle of the  arch?"  
"No, not that," said Susan. "The red one up above - over the battlement."  
The Dwarf's face fell. "Looks more like a cherry than an apple," he muttered, but he said  nothing out loud.  
They tossed up for first shot (greatly to the interest of Trumpkin, who had never seen a  coin tossed before) and Susan lost. They were to shoot from the top of the steps that led  from the hall into the courtyard. Everyone could see from the way the Dwarf took his  position and handled his bow that he knew what he was about.  
Twang went the string. It was an excellent shot. The tiny apple shook as the arrow  passed, and a leaf came fluttering down. Then Susan went to the top of the steps and  strung her bow. She was not enjoying her match half so much as Edmund had enjoyed  his; not because she had any doubt about hitting the apple but because Susan was so  tenderhearted that she almost hated to beat someone who had been beaten already. The  Dwarf watched her keenly as she drew the shaft to her ear. A moment later, with a little  soft thump which they could all hear in that quiet place, the apple fell to the grass with  Susan's arrow in it.  
"Oh, well done, Su, " shouted the other children.  
"It wasn't really any better than yours," said Susan to the Dwarf. "I think there was a tiny  breath of wind as you shot."    
"No, there wasn't," said Trumpkin. "Don't tell me. I know when I am fairly beaten. I  won't even say that the scar of my last wound catches me a bit when I get my arm well  back -"  
"Oh, are you wounded?" asked Lucy. "Do let me look."  
"It's not a sight for little girls," began Trumpkin, but then he suddenly checked himself.  "There I go talking like a fool again," he said "I suppose you're as likely to be a great  surgeon as your brother was to be a great swordsman or your sister to be a great archer."  He sat down on the steps and took off his hauberk and slipped down his little shirt,  showing an arm hairy and muscular (in proportion) as a sailor's though not much bigger  than a child's. There was a clumsy bandage on the shoulder which Lucy proceeded to  unroll. Underneath, the cut looked very nasty and there was a good deal of swelling. "Oh,  poor Trumpkin," said Lucy. "How horrid." Then she carefully dripped on to it one single  drop of the cordial from her flask.  
"Hullo. Eh? What have you done?" said Trumpkin. But however he turned his head and  squinted and whisked his beard to and fro, he couldn't quite see his own shoulder. Then  he felt it as well as he could, getting his arms and fingers into very difficult positions as  you do when you're trying to scratch a place that is just out of reach. Then he swung his  arm and raised it and tried the muscles, and finally jumped to his feet crying, "Giants and  junipers! It's cured! It's as good as new." After that he burst into a great laugh and said,  "Well, I've made as big a fool of myself as ever a Dwarf did. No offence, I hope? My  humble duty to your Majesties all -humble duty. And thanks for my life, my cure, my  breakfast - and my lesson."  
The children all said it was quite all right and not to mention it.  
"And now," said Peter, "if you've really decided to believe in us-"  
"I have," said the Dwarf.  
"It's quite clear what we have to do. We must join King Caspian at once."  
"The sooner the better," said Trumpkin. "My being such a fool has already wasted about  an hour."  
"It's about two days' journey, the way you came," said Peter. "For us, I mean. We can't  walk all day and night like you Dwarfs." Then he turned to the others. "What Trumpkin  calls Aslan's How is obviously the Stone Table itself. You remember it was about half a  day's march, or a little less, from there down to the Fords of Beruna -"  
"Beruna's Bridge, we call it," said Trumpkin.  
 
 "There was no bridge in our time," said Peter. "And then from Beruna down to here was  another day and a bit. We used to get home about teatime on the second day, going  easily. Going hard, we could do the whole thing in a day and a half perhaps."  
"But remember it's all woods now," said Trumpkin, "and there are enemies to dodge."  
"Look here," said Edmund, "need we go by the same way that Our Dear Little Friend  came?"  
"No more of that, your Majesty, if you love me," said the Dwarf.  
"Very well," said Edmund. "May I say our D.L.F.?"  
"Oh, Edmund," said Susan. "Don't keep on at him like that."  
"That's all right, lass - I mean your Majesty," said Trumpkin with a chuckle. "A jibe won't  raise a blister." (And after that they often called him the D.L.F. till they'd almost  forgotten what it meant.)  
"As I was saying," continued Edmund, "we needn't go that way. Why shouldn't we row a  little south till we come to Glasswater Creek and row up it? That brings us up behind the  Hill of the Stone Table, and we'll be safe while we're at sea. If we start at once, we can be  at the head of Glasswater before dark, get a few hours' sleep, and be with Caspian pretty  early tomorrow."  
"What a thing it is to know the coast," said Trumpkin. "None of us know anything about  Glasswater."  
"What about food?" asked Susan.  
"Oh, we'll have to do with apples," said Lucy. "Do let's get on. We've done nothing yet,  and we've been here nearly two days."  
"And anyway, no one's going to have my hat for a fishbasket again," said Edmund.  
They used one of the raincoats as a kind of bag and put a good many apples in it. Then  they all had a good long drink at the well (for they would meet no more fresh water till  they landed at the head of the Creek) and went down to the boat. The children were sorry  to leave Cair Paravel, which, even in ruins, had begun to feel like home again.  
"The D.L.F. had better steer," said Peter, "and Ed and I will take an oar each. Half a  moment, though. We'd better take off our mail: we're going to be pretty warm before  we're done. The girls had better be in the bows and shout directions to the D.L.F. because  he doesn't know the way. You'd better get us a fair way out to sea till we've passed the  island."  
 
 And soon the green, wooded coast of the island was falling away behind them, and its  little bays and headlands were beginning to look flatter, and the boat was rising and  falling in the gentle swell. The sea began to grow bigger around them and, in the  distance, bluer, but close round the boat it was green and bubbly. Everything smelled salt  and there was no noise except the swishing of water and the clop-clop of water against  the sides and the splash of the oars and the jolting noise of the rowlocks. The sun grew  hot.  
It was delightful for Lucy and Susan in the bows, bending over the edge and trying to get  their hands in the sea which they could never quite reach. The bottom, mostly pure, pale  sand but with occasional patches of purple seaweed, could be seen beneath them.  
"It's like old times," said Lucy. "Do you remember our voyage to Terebinthia - and  Galma - and Seven Isles - and the Lone Islands?"  
"Yes," said Susan, "and our great ship the Splendour Hyaline, with the swan's head at her  prow and the carved swan's wings coming back almost to her waist?"  
"And the silken sails, and the great stern lanterns?"  
"And the feasts on the poop and the musicians."  
"Do you remember when we had the musicians up in the rigging playing flutes so that it  sounded like music out of the sky?"  
Presently Susan took over Edmund's oar and he came forward to join Lucy. They had  passed the island now and stood closer in to the shore - all wooded and deserted. They  would have thought it very pretty if they had not remembered the time when it was open  and breezy and full of merry friends.  
"Phew! This is pretty gruelling work," said Peter. "Can't I row for a bit?" said Lucy. "The  oars are too big for you," said Peter shortly, not because he was cross but because he had  no strength to spare for talking.  

CHAPTER 9  
WHAT LUCY SAW  
SUSAN and the two boys were bitterly tired with rowing before they rounded the last  headland and began the final pull up Glasswater itself, and Lucy's head ached from the  long hours of sun and the glare on the water. Even Trumpkin longed for the voyage to be  over. The seat on which he sat to steer had been made for men, not Dwarfs, and his feet  did not reach the floor-boards; and everyone knows how uncomfortable that is even for    
 ten minutes. And as they all grew more tired, their spirits fell. Up till now the children  had only been thinking of how to get to Caspian. Now they wondered what they would  do when they found him, and how a handful of Dwarfs and woodland creatures could  defeat an army of grown-up Humans.  
Twilight was coming on as they rowed slowly up the windings of Glasswater Creek - a  twilight which deepened as the banks drew closer together and the overhanging trees  began almost to meet overhead. It was very quiet in here as the sound of the sea died  away behind them; they could even hear the trickle of the little streams that poured down  from the forest into Glasswater.  
They went ashore at last, far too tired to attempt lighting a fire; and even a supper of  apples (though most of them felt that they never wanted to see an apple again) seemed  better than trying to catch or shoot anything. After a little silent munching they all  huddled down together in the moss and dead leaves between four large beech trees.  
Everyone except Lucy went to sleep at once. Lucy, being far less tired, found it hard to  get comfortable. Also, she had forgotten till now that all Dwarfs snore. She knew that one  of the best ways of getting to sleep is to stop trying, so she opened her eyes.  
Through a gap in the bracken and branches she could just see a patch of water in the  Creek and the sky above it. Then, with a thrill of memory, she saw again, after all those  years, the bright Narnian stars. She had once known them better than the stars of our own  world, because as a Queen in Narnia she had gone to bed much later than as a child in  England. And there they were - at least, three of the summer constellations could be seen  from where she lay: the Ship, the Hammer, and the Leopard. "Dear old Leopard," she  murmured happily to herself.  
Instead of getting drowsier she was getting more awake - with an odd, night-time,  dreamish kind of wakefulness. The Creek was growing brighter. She knew now that then  moon was on it, though she couldn't see the moon. And now she began to feel that the  whole forest was coming awake like herself. Hardly knowing why she did it, she got up  quickly and walked a little distance away from their bivouac.  
"This is lovely," said Lucy to herself. It was cool and fresh, delicious smells were floating  everywhere.  
Somewhere close by she heard the twitter of a nightingale beginning to sing, then  stopping, then beginning again. It was a little lighter ahead. She went towards the light  and came to a place where there were fewer trees, and whole patches or pools of  moonlight, but the moonlight and the shadows so mixed that you could hardly be sure  where anything was or what it was. At the same moment the nightingale, satisfied at last  with his tuning up, burst into full song.  
Lucy's eyes began to grow accustomed to the light, and she saw the trees that were  nearest her more distinctly. A great longing for the old days when the trees could talk in    
 Narnia came over her. She knew exactly how each of these trees would talk if only she  could wake them, and what sort of human form it would put on. She looked at a silver  birch: it would have a soft, showery voice and would look like a slender girl, with hair  blown all about her face, and fond of dancing. She looked at the oak: he would be a  wizened, but hearty old man with a frizzled beard and warts on his face and hands, and  hair growing out of the warts. She looked at the beech under which she was standing. Ah!  she would be the best of all. She would be a gracious goddess, smooth and stately, the  lady of the wood.  
"Oh, Trees, Trees, Trees," said Lucy (though she had not been intending to speak at all).  "Oh, Trees, wake, wake, wake. Don't you remember it? Don't you remember me? Dryads  and Hamadryads, come out, come to me."  
Though there was not a breath of wind they all stirred about her. The rustling noise of the  leaves was almost like words. The nightingale stopped singing as if to listen to it.  
Lucy felt that at any moment she would begin to understand what the trees were trying to  say. But the moment did not come. The rustling died away. The nightingale resumed its  song. Even in the moonlight the wood looked more ordinary again. Yet Lucy had the  feeling (as you sometimes have when you are trying to remember a name or a date and  almost get it, but it vanishes before you really do) that she had just missed something: as  if she had spoken to the trees a split second too soon or a split second too late, or used all  the right words except one, or put in one word that was just wrong.  
Quite suddenly she began to feel tired. She went back to the bivouac, snuggled down  between Susan and Peter, and was asleep in a few minutes.  
It was a cold and cheerless waking for them all next morning, with a grey twilight in the  wood (for the sun had not yet risen) and everything damp and dirty.  
"Apples, heigh-ho," said Trumpkin with a rueful grin. "I must say you ancient kings and  queens don't overfeed your courtiers!"  
They stood up and shook themselves and looked about. The trees were thick and they  could see no more than a few yards in any direction.  
"I suppose your Majesties know the way all right?" said the Dwarf.  
"I don't," said Susan. "I've never seen these woods in my life before. In fact I thought all  along that we ought to have gone by the river."  
"Then I think you might have said so at the time," answered Peter, with pardonable  sharpness.  
"Oh, don't take any notice of her," said Edmund. "She always is a wet blanket. You've got  that pocket compass of yours, Peter, haven't you? Well, then, we're as right as rain. We've    
 only got to keep on going north-west - cross that little river, the what-do-you-call-it? - the  Rush -"  
"I know," said Peter. "The one that joins the big river at the Fords of Beruna, or Beruna's  Bridge, as the D.L.F. calls it."  
"That's right. Cross it and strike uphill, and we'll be at the Stone Table (Aslan's How, I  mean) by eight or nine o'clock. I hope King Caspian will give us a good breakfast!"  
"I hope you're right," said Susan. "I can't remember all that at all."  
"That's the worst of girls," said Edmund to Peter and the Dwarf. "They never carry a map  in their heads."  
"That's because our heads have something inside them," said Lucy.  
At first things seemed to be going pretty well. They even -thought they had struck an old  path; but if you know anything about woods, you will know that one is always finding  imaginary paths. They disappear after about five minutes and then you think you have  found another (and hope it is not another but more of the same one) and it also  disappears, and after you have been well lured out of your right direction you realize that  none of them were pats at all. The boys and the Dwarf, however, were used to woods and  were not taken in for more than a few seconds.  
They had plodded on for about half an hour (three of them very stiff from yesterday's  rowing) when Trumpkin suddenly whispered, "Stop." They all stopped. "There's  something following us," he said in a low voice. "Or rather, something keeping up with  us: over there on the left." They all stood still, listening and staring till their ears and eyes  ached. "You and I'd better each have an arrow on the string," said Susan to Trumpkin.  The Dwarf nodded, and when both bows were ready for action the party went on again.  
They went a few dozen yards through fairly open woodland, keeping a sharp look-out.  Then they came to a place where the undergrowth thickened and they had to pass nearer  to it. Just as they were passing the place, there came a sudden something that snarled and  flashed, rising out from the breaking twigs like a thunderbolt. Lucy was knocked down  and winded, hearing the twang of a bowstring as she fell. When she was able to take  notice of things again, she saw a great grim-looking grey bear lying dead with  Trumpkin's arrow in its side.  
"The D.L.F. beat you in that shooting match, Su," said #Peter, with a slightly forced  smile. Even he had been shaken by this adventure.  
"I - I left it too late," said Susan, in an embarrassed voice. "I was so afraid it might be,  you know - one of our kind of bears, a talking bear." She hated killing things.  
 
 "That's the trouble of it," said Trumpkin, "when most of the beasts have gone enemy and  gone dumb, but there are still some of the other kind left. You never know, and you  daren't wait to see."  
"Poor old Bruin," said Susan. "You don't think he was?"  
"Not he," said the Dwarf. "I saw the face and I heard the snarl. He only wanted Little Girl  for his breakfast. And talking of breakfast, I didn't want to discourage your Majesties  when you said you hoped King Caspian would give you a good one: but meat's precious  scarce in camp. And there's good eating on a bear. It would be a shame to leave the  carcass without taking a bit, and it won't delay us more than half an hour. I dare say you  two youngsters - Kings, I should say - know how to skin a bear?"  
"Let's go and sit down a fair way off," said Susan to Lucy. "I know what a horrid messy  business that will be." Lucy shuddered and nodded. When they had sat down she said:  "Such a horrible idea has come into my head, Su. "  
"What's that?"  
"Wouldn't it be dreadful if some day, in our own world, at home, men started going wild  inside, like the animals here, and still looked like men, so that you'd never know which  were which?"  
"We've got enough to bother about here and now in Narnia," said the practical Susan,  "without imagining things like that."  
When they rejoined the boys and the Dwarf, as much as they thought they could carry of  the best meat had been cut off. Raw meat is not a nice thing to fill one's pockets with, but  they folded it up in fresh leaves and made the best of it. They were all experienced  enough to know that they would feel quite differently about these squashy and unpleasant  parcels when they had walked long enough to be really hungry.  
On they trudged again (stopping to wash three pairs of hands that needed it in the first  stream they passed) until the sun rose and the birds began to sing, and more flies than  they wanted were buzzing in the bracken. The stiffness from yesterday's rowing began to  wear off. Everybody's spirits rose. The sun grew warmer and they took their helmets off  and carried them.  
"I suppose we are going right?" said Edmund about an hour later.  
"I don't see how we can go wrong as long as we don't bear too much to the left," said  Peter. "If we bear too much to the right, the worst that can happen is wasting a little time  by striking the great River too soon and not cutting off the corner."  
And again they trudged on with no sound except the thud of their feet and the jingle of  their chain shirts.    
"Where's this bally Rush got to?" said Edmund a good deal later.  
"I certainly thought we'd have struck it by now," said Peter. "But there's nothing to do but  keep on." They both knew that the Dwarf was looking anxiously at them, but he said  nothing.  
And still they trudged on and their mail shirts began to feel very hot and heavy.  
"What on earth?" said Peter suddenly.  
They had come, without seeing it, almost to the edge of a small precipice from which  they looked down into a gorge with a river at the bottom. On the far side the cliffs rose  much higher. None of the party except Edmund (and perhaps Trumpkin) was a rock  climber.  
"I'm sorry," said Peter. "It's my fault for coming this way. We're lost. I've never seen this  place in my life before."  
The Dwarf gave a low whistle between his teeth.  
"Oh, do let's go back and go the other way," said Susan. "I knew all along we'd get lost in  these woods."  
"Susan!" said Lucy, reproachfully, "don't nag at Peter like that. It's so rotten, and he's  doing all he can."  
"And don't you snap at Su like that, either," said Edmund. "I think she's quite right."  
"Tubs and tortoiseshells!" exclaimed Trumpkin. "If we've got lost coming, what chance  have we of finding our way back? And if we're to go back to the Island and begin all over  again - even supposing we could - we might as well give the whole thing up. Miraz will  have finished with Caspian before we get there at that rate."  
"You think we ought to go on?" said Lucy.  
"I'm not sure the High King is lost," said Trumpkin. "What's to hinder this river being the  Rush?"  
"Because the Rush is not in a gorge," said Peter, keeping his temper with some difficulty.  
"Your Majesty says is," replied the Dwarf, "but oughtn't you to say was? You knew this  country hundreds - it may be a thousand - years ago. Mayn't it have changed? A landslide  might have pulled off half the side of that hill, leaving bare rock, and there are your  precipices beyond the gorge. Then the Rush might go on deepening its course year after    
 year till you get the little precipices this side. Or there might have been an earthquake, or  anything."  
"I never thought of that," said Peter.  
"And anyway," continued Trumpkin, "even if this is not the Rush, it's flowing roughly  north and so it must fall into the Great River anyway. I think I passed something that  might have been it, on my way down. So if we go downstream, to our right, we'll hit the  Great River. Perhaps not so high as we'd hoped, but at least we'll be no worse off than if  you'd come my way."  
"Trumpkin, you're a brick," said Peter. "Come on, then. Down this side of the gorge."  
"Look! Look! Look!" cried Lucy.  
"Where? What?" said everyone.  
"The Lion," said Lucy. "Aslan himself. Didn't you see?" Her face had changed  completely and her eyes shone.  
"Do you really mean -?" began Peter.  
"Where did you think you saw him?" asked Susan.  
"Don't talk like a grown-up," said Lucy, stamping her foot. "I didn't think I saw him. I  saw him."  
"Where, Lu?" asked Peter.  
"Right up there between those mountain ashes. No, this side of the gorge. And up, not  down. Just the opposite of the way you want to go. And he wanted us to go where he was  - up there."  
"How do you know that was what he wanted?" asked Edmund.  
"He - I - I just know," said Lucy, "by his face."  
The others all looked at each other in puzzled silence.  
"Her Majesty may well have seen a lion," put in Trumpkin. "There are lions in these  woods, I've been told. But it needn't have been a friendly and talking lion any more than  the bear was a friendly and talking bear."  
"Oh, don't be so stupid," said Lucy. "Do you think I don't know Aslan when I see him?"  
 
 "He'd be a pretty elderly lion by now," said Trumpkin, "if he's one you knew when you  were here before! And if it could be the same one, what's to prevent him having gone  wild and witless like so many others?"  
Lucy turned crimson and I think she would have flown at Trumpkin, if Peter had not laid  his hand on her arm. "The D.L.F. doesn't understand. How could he? You must just take  it, Trumpkin, that we do really know about Aslan; a little bit about him, I mean. And you  mustn't talk about him like that again. It isn't lucky for one thing: and it's all nonsense for  another. The only question is whether Aslan was really there."  
"But I know he was," said Lucy, her eyes filling with tears.  
"Yes, Lu, but we don't, you see," said Peter.  
"There's nothing for it but a vote," said Edmund.  
"All right," replied Peter. "You're the eldest, D.L.F. What do you vote for? Up or down?"  
"Down," said the Dwarf. "I know nothing about Aslan. But I do know that if we turn left  and follow the gorge up, it might lead us all day before we found a place where we could  cross it. Whereas if we turn right and go down, we're bound to reach the Great River in  about a couple of hours. And if there are any real lions about, we want to go away from  them, not towards them."  
"What do you say, Susan?"  
"Don't be angry, Lu," said Susan, "but I do think we should go down. I'm dead tired. Do  let's get out of this wretched wood into the open as quick as we can. And none of us  except you saw anything."  
"Edmund?" said Peter.  
"Well, there's just this," said Edmund, speaking quickly and turning a little red. "When  we first discovered Narnia a year ago - or a thousand years ago, whichever it is - it was  Lucy who discovered it first and none of us would believe her. I was the worst of the lot,  I know. Yet she was right after all. Wouldn't it be fair to believe her this time? I vote for  going up."  
"Oh, Ed!" said Lucy and seized his hand.  
"And now it's your turn, Peter," said Susan, "and I do hope -"  
"Oh, shut up, shut up and let a chap think," interrupted Peter. "I'd much rather not have to  vote. "  
"You're the High King," said Trumpkin sternly.    
"Down," said Peter after a long pause. "I know Lucy may be right after all, but I can't  help it. We must do one or the other."  
So they set off to their right along the edge, downstream. And Lucy came last of the  party, crying bitterly.  


CHAPTER TEN  
THE RETURN OF THE LION  
To keep along the edge of the gorge was not so easy as it had looked. Before they had  gone many yards they were confronted with young fir woods growing on the very edge,  and after they had tried to go through these, stooping and pushing for about ten minutes,  they realized that, in there, it would take them an hour to do half a mile. So they came  back and out again and decided to go round the fir wood. This took them much farther to  their right than they wanted to go, far out of sight of the cliffs and out of sound of the  river, till they began to be afraid they had lost it altogether. Nobody knew the time, but it  was getting to the hottest part of the day.  
When they were able at last to go back to the edge of the gorge (nearly a mile below the  point from which they had started) they found the cliffs on their side of it a good deal  lower and more broken. Soon they found a way down into the gorge and continued the  journey at the river's edge. But first they had a rest and a long drink. No one was talking  any more about breakfast, or even dinner, with Caspian.  
They may have been wise to stick to the Rush instead of going along the top. It kept them  sure of their direction: and ever since the fir wood they had all been afraid of being  forced too far out of their course and losing themselves in the wood. It was an old and  pathless forest, and you could not keep anything like a straight course in it. Patches of  hopeless brambles, fallen trees, boggy places and dense undergrowth would be always  getting in your way. But the gorge of the Rush was not at all a nice place for travelling  either. I mean, it was not a nice place for people in a hurry. For an afternoon's ramble  ending in a picnic tea it would have been delightful. It had everything you could want on  an occasion of that sort - rumbling waterfalls, silver cascades, deep, amber-coloured  pools, mossy rocks, and deep moss on the banks in which you could sink over your  ankles, every kind of fern, jewel-like dragon flies, sometimes a hawk overhead and once  (Peter and Trumpkin. both thought) an eagle. But of course what the children and the  Dwarf wanted to see as soon as possible was the Great River below them, and Beruna,  and the way to Aslan's How.  
 
 As they went on, the Rush began to fall more and more steeply. Their journey became  more and more of a climb and less and less of a walk - in places even a dangerous climb  over slippery rock with a nasty drop into dark chasms, and the river roaring angrily at the  bottom.  
You may be sure they watched the cliffs on their left eagerly for any sign of a break or  any place where they could climb them; but those cliffs remained cruel. It was  maddening, because everyone knew that if once they were out of the gorge on that side,  they would have only a smooth slope and a fairly short walk to Caspian's headquarters.  
The boys and the Dwarf were now in favour of lighting a fire and cooking their bear- meat. Susan didn't want this; she only wanted, as she said, "to get on and finish it and get  out of these beastly woods". Lucy was far too tired and miserable to have any opinion  about anything. But as there was no dry wood to be had, it mattered very little what  anyone thought. The boys began to wonder if raw meat was really as nasty as they had  always been told. Trumpkin assured them it was.  
Of course, if the children had attempted a journey like this a few days ago in England,  they would have been knocked up. I think I have explained before how Narnia was  altering them. Even Lucy was by now, so to speak, only one-third of a little girl going to  boarding school for the first time, and two-thirds of Queen Lucy of Narnia.  
"At last!" said Susan.  
"Oh, hurray!" said Peter.  
The river gorge had just made a bend and the whole view spread out beneath them. They  could see open country stretching before them to the horizon and, between it and them,  the broad silver ribbon of the Great River. They could see the specially broad and shallow  place which had once been the Fords of Beruna but was now spanned by a long, many- arched bridge. There was a little town at the far end of it.  
"By Jove," said Edmund. "We fought the Battle of Beruna just where that town is!"  
This cheered the boys more than anything. You can't help feeling stronger when you look  at a place where you won a glorious victory not to mention a kingdom, hundreds of years  ago. Peter and Edmund were soon so busy talking about the battle that they forgot their  sore feet and the heavy drag of their mail shirts on their shoulders. The Dwarf was  interested too.  
They were all getting on at a quicker pace now. The going became easier. Though there  were still sheer cliffs on their left, the ground was becoming lower on their right. Soon it  was no longer a gorge at all, only a valley. There were no more waterfalls and presently  they were in fairly thick woods again.  
 
 Then - all at once - whizz, and a sound rather like the stroke of a woodpecker. The  children were still wondering where (ages ago) they had heard a sound just like that and  why they disliked it so, when Trumpkin shouted, "Down', at the same moment forcing  Lucy (who happened to be next to him) flat down into the bracken. Peter, who had been  looking up to see if he could spot a squirrel, had seen what it was - a long cruel arrow had  sunk into a tree trunk just above his head. As he pulled Susan down and dropped himself,  another came rasping over his shoulder and struck the ground at his side.  
"Quick! Quick! Get back! Crawl!" panted Trumpkin.  
They turned and wriggled along uphill, under the bracken amid clouds of horribly  buzzing flies. Arrows whizzed round them. One struck Susan's helmet with a sharp ping  and glanced off. They crawled quicker. Sweat poured off them. Then they ran, stooping  nearly double. The boys held their swords in their hands for fear they would trip them up.  
It was heart-breaking work - all uphill again, back over the ground they had already  travelled. When they felt that they really couldn't run any more, even to save their lives,  they all dropped down in the damp moss beside a waterfall and behind a big boulder,  panting. They were surprised to see how high they had already got.  
They listened intently and heard no sound of pursuit.  
"So that's all right," said Trumpkin, drawing a deep breath. "They're not searching the  wood. Only sentries, I expect. But it means that Miraz has an outpost down there. Bottles  and battledores! though, it was a near thing."  
"I ought to have my head smacked for bringing us this way at all," said Peter.  
"On the contrary, your Majesty," said the Dwarf. "For one thing it wasn't you, it was your  royal brother, King Edmund, who first suggested going by Glasswater."  
"I'm afraid the D.L.F.'s right," said Edmund, who had quite honestly forgotten this ever  since things began going wrong.  
"And for another," continued Trumpkin, "if we'd gone my way, we'd have walked  straight into that new outpost, most likely; or at least had just the same trouble avoiding  it. I think this Glasswater route has turned out for the best."  
"A blessing in disguise," said Susan.  
"Some disguise!" said Edmund.  
"I suppose we'll have to go right up the gorge again now," said Lucy.  
"Lu, you're a hero," said Peter. "That's the nearest you've got today to saying I told you  so. Let's get on."    
"And as soon as we're well up into the forest," said Trumpkin, "whatever anyone says,  I'm going to light a fire and cook supper. But we must get well away from here."  
There is no need to describe how they toiled back up the gorge. It was pretty hard work,  but oddly enough everyone felt more cheerful. They were getting their second wind; and  the word supper had had a wonderful effect.  
They reached the fir wood which had caused them so much trouble while it was still  daylight, and bivouacked in a hollow just above it. It was tedious gathering the firewood;  but it was grand when the fire blazed up and they began producing the damp and smeary  parcels of bear-meat which would have been so very unattractive to anyone who had  spent the day indoors. The Dwarf had splendid ideas about cookery. Each apple (they still  had a few of these) was wrapped up in bear's meat - as if it was to be apple dumpling  with meat instead of pastry, only much thicker - and spiked on a sharp stick and then  roasted. And the juice of the apple worked all through the meat, like apple sauce with  roast pork. Bear that has lived too much on other animals is not very nice, but bear that  has had plenty of honey and fruit is excellent, and this turned out to be that sort of bear. It  was a truly glorious meal. And, of course, no washing up - only lying back and watching  the smoke from Trumpkin's pipe and stretching one's tired legs and chatting. Everyone  felt quite hopeful now about finding King Caspian tomorrow and defeating Miraz in a  few days. It may not have been sensible of them to feel like this, but they did.  
They dropped off to sleep one by one, but all pretty quickly.  
Lucy woke out of the deepest sleep you can imagine, with the feeling that the voice she  liked best in the world had been calling her name. She thought at first it was her father's  voice, but that did not seem quite right. Then she thought it was Peter's voice, but that did  not seem to fit either. She did not want to get up; not because she was still tired - on the  contrary she was wonderfully rested and all the aches had gone from her bones - but  because she felt so extremely happy and comfortable. She was looking straight up at the  Narnian moon, which is larger than ours, and at the starry sky, for the place where they  had bivouacked was comparatively open.  
"Lucy," came the call again, neither her father's voice nor Peter's. She sat up, trembling  with excitement but not with fear. The moon was so bright that the whole forest  landscape around her was almost as clear as day, though it looked wilder. Behind her was  the fir wood; away to her right the jagged cliff-tops on the far side of the gorge; straight  ahead, open grass to where a glade of trees began about a bow-shot away. Lucy looked  very hard at the trees of that glade.  
"Why, I do believe they're moving," she said to herself. "They're walking about."  
She got up, her heart beating wildly, and walked towards them. There was certainly a  noise in the glade, a noise such as trees make in a high wind, though there was no wind  tonight. Yet it was not exactly an ordinary treenoise either. Lucy felt there was a tune in    
 it, but she could not catch the tune any more than she had been able to catch the words  when the trees had so nearly talked to her the night before. But there was, at least, a lilt;  she felt her own feet wanting to dance as she got nearer. And now there was no doubt that  the trees were really moving moving in and out through one another as if in a  complicated country dance. ("And I suppose," thought Lucy, "when trees dance, it must  be a very, very country dance indeed.') She was almost among them now.  
The first tree she looked at seemed at first glance to be not a tree at all but a huge man  with a shaggy beard and great bushes of hair. She was not frightened: she had seen such  things before. But when she looked again he was only a tree, though he was still moving.  You couldn't see whether he had feet or roots, of course, because when trees move they  don't walk on the surface of the earth; they wade in it as we do in water. The same thing  happened with every tree she looked at. At one moment they seemed to be the friendly,  lovely giant and giantess forms which the tree-people put on when some good magic has  called them into full life: next moment they all looked like trees again. But when they  looked like trees, it was like strangely human trees, and when they looked like people, it  was like strangely branchy and leafy people - and all the time that queer lilting, rustling,  cool, merry noise.  
"They are almost awake, not quite," said Lucy. She knew she herself was wide awake,  wider than anyone usually is.  
She went fearlessly in among them, dancing herself as she leaped this way and that to  avoid being run into by these huge partners. But she was only half interested in them. She  wanted to get beyond them to something else; it was from beyond them that the dear  voice had called.  
She soon got through them (half wondering whether she had been using her arms to push  branches aside, or to take hands in a Great Chain with big dancers who stooped to reach  her) for they were really a ring of trees round a central open place. She stepped out from  among their shifting confusion of lovely lights and shadows.  
A circle of grass, smooth as a lawn, met her eyes, with dark trees dancing all round it.  And then - oh joy! For he was there: the huge Lion, shining white in the moonlight, with  his huge black shadow underneath him.  
But for the movement of his tail he might have been a stone lion, but Lucy never thought  of that. She never stopped to think whether he was a friendly lion or not. She rushed to  him. She felt her heart would burst if she lost a moment. And the next thing she knew  was that she was kissing him and putting her arms as far round his neck as she could and  burying her face in the beautiful rich silkiness of his mane.  
"Aslan, Aslan. Dear Aslan," sobbed Lucy. "At last."  
 
 The great beast rolled over on his side so that Lucy fell, half sitting and half lying  between his front paws. He bent forward and just touched her nose with his tongue. His  warm breath came all round her. She gazed up into the large wise face.  
"Welcome, child," he said.  
"Aslan," said Lucy, "you're bigger."  
"That is because you are older, little one," answered he.  
"Not because you are?"  
"I am not. But every year you grow, you will find me bigger."  
For a time she was so happy that she did not want to speak. But Aslan spoke.  
"Lucy," he said, "we must not lie here for long. You have work in hand, and much time  has been lost today."  
"Yes, wasn't it a shame?" said Lucy. "I saw you all right. They wouldn't believe me.  They're all so -"  
From somewhere deep inside Aslan's body there came the faintest suggestion of a growl.  
"I'm sorry," said Lucy, who understood some of his moods. "I didn't mean to start  slanging the others. But it wasn't my fault anyway, was it?"  
The Lion looked straight into her eyes.  
"Oh, Aslan," said Lucy. "You don't mean it was? How could I - I couldn't have left the  others and come up to you alone, how could I? Don't look at me like that . . . oh well, I  suppose I could. Yes, and it wouldn't have been alone, I know, not if I was with you. But  what would have been the good?"  
Aslan said nothing.  
"You mean," said Lucy rather faintly, "that it would have turned out all right - somehow?  But how? Please, Aslan! Am I not to know?"  
"To know what would have happened, child?" said Aslan. "No. Nobody is ever told that."  
"Oh dear," said Lucy.  
"But anyone can find out what will happen," said Aslan. "If you go back to the others  now, and wake them up; and tell them you have seen me again; and that you must all get  up at once and follow me - what will happen? There is only one way of finding out."    
"Do you mean that is what you want me to do?" gasped Lucy.  
"Yes, little one," said Aslan.  
"Will the others see you too?" asked Lucy.  
"Certainly not at first," said Aslan. "Later on, it depends."  
"But they won't believe me!" said Lucy.  
"It doesn't matter," said Aslan.  
"Oh dear, oh dear," said Lucy. "And I was so pleased at finding you again. And I thought  you'd let me stay. And I thought you'd come roaring in and frighten all the enemies away  - like last time. And now everything is going to be horrid."  
"It is hard for you, little one," said Aslan. "But things never happen the same way twice.  It has been hard for us all in Narnia before now."  
Lucy buried her head in his mane to hide from his face. But there must have been magic  in his mane. She could feel lion-strength going into her. Quite suddenly she sat up.  
"I'm sorry, Aslan," she said. "I'm ready now."  
"Now you are a lioness," said Aslan. "And now all Narnia will be renewed. But come.  We have no time to lose."  
He got up and walked with stately, noiseless paces back to the belt of dancing trees  through which she had just come: and Lucy went with him, laying a rather tremulous  hand on his mane. The trees parted to let them through and for one second assumed their  human forms completely. Lucy had a glimpse of tall and lovely wood-gods and wood- goddesses all bowing to the Lion; next moment they were trees again, but still bowing,  with such graceful sweeps of branch and trunk that their bowing was itself a kind of  dance.  
"Now, child," said Aslan, when they had left the trees behind them, "I will wait here. Go  and wake the others and tell them to follow. If they will not, then you at least must follow  me alone."  
It is a terrible thing to have to wake four people, all older than yourself and all very tired,  for the purpose of telling them something they probably won't believe and making them  do something they certainly won't like. "I mustn't think about it, I must just do it,"  thought Lucy.  
 
 She went to Peter first and shook him. "Peter," she whispered in his ear, "wake up. Quick.  Aslan is here. He says we've got to follow him at once."  
"Certainly, Lu. Whatever you like," said Peter unexpectedly. This was encouraging, but  as Peter instantly rolled round and went to sleep again it wasn't much use.  
Then she tried Susan. Susan did really wake up, but only to say in her most annoying  grown-up voice, "You've been dreaming, Lucy. Go to sleep again."  
She tackled Edmund next. It was very difficult to wake him, but when at last she had  done it he was really awake and sat up.  
"Eh?" he said in a grumpy voice. "What are you talking about?"  
She said it all over again. This was one of the worst parts of her job, for each time she  said it, it sounded less convincing.  
"Aslan!" said Edmund, jumping up. "Hurray! Where?"  
Lucy turned back to where she could see the Lion waiting, his patient eyes fixed upon  her. "There," she said, pointing.  
"Where?" asked Edmund again.  
"There. There. Don't you see? Just this side of the trees."  
Edmund stared hard for a while and then said, "No. There's nothing there. You've got  dazzled and muddled with the moonlight. One does, you know. I thought I saw  something for a moment myself. It's only an optical what-do-you-call-it."  
"I can see him all the time," said Lucy. "He's looking straight at us."  
"Then why can't I see him?"  
"He said you mightn't be able to."  
"Why?"  
"I don't know. That's what he said."  
"Oh, bother it all," said Edmund. "I do wish you wouldn't keep on seeing things. But I  suppose we'll have to wake the others."  

 
 CHAPTER ELEVEN  
THE LION ROARS  
WHEN the whole party was finally awake Lucy had to tell her story for the fourth time.  The blank silence which followed it was as discouraging as anything could be.  
"I can't see anything," said Peter after he had stared his eyes sore. "Can you, Susan?"  
"No, of course I can't," snapped Susan. "Because there isn't anything to see. She's been  dreaming. Do lie down and go to sleep, Lucy."  
"And I do hope," said Lucy in a tremulous voice, "that you will all come with me.  Because - because I'll have to go with him whether anyone else does or not."  
"Don't talk nonsense, Lucy," said Susan. "Of course you can't go off on your own. Don't  let her, Peter. She's being downright naughty."  
"I'll go with her, if she must go," said Edmund. "She's been right before."  
"I know she has," said Peter. "And she may have been right this morning. We certainly  had no luck going down the gorge. Still - at this hour of the night. And why should Aslan  be invisible to us? He never used to be. It's not like him. What does the D.L.F. say?"  
"Oh, I say nothing at all," answered the Dwarf. "If you all go, of course, I'll go with you;  and if your party splits up, I'll go with the High King. That's my duty to him and King  Caspian. But, if you ask my private opinion, I'm a plain dwarf who doesn't think there's  much chance of finding a road by night where you couldn't find one by day. And I have  no use for magic lions which are talking lions and don't talk, and friendly lions though  they don't do us any good, and whopping big lions though nobody can see them. It's all  bilge and beanstalks as far as I can see."  
"He's beating his paw on the ground for us to hurry," said Lucy. "We must go now. At  least I must."  
"You've no right to try to force the rest of us like that. It's four to one and you're the  youngest," said Susan.  
"Oh, come on," growled Edmund. "We've got to go. There'll be no peace till we do." He  fully intended to back Lucy up, but he was annoyed at losing his night's sleep and was  making up for it by doing everything as sulkily as possible.  
"On the march, then," said Peter, wearily fitting his arm into his shield-strap and putting  his helmet on. At any other time he would have said something nice to Lucy, who was his  favourite sister, for he knew how wretched she must be feeling, and he knew that,    
 whatever had happened, it was not her fault. But he couldn't help being a little annoyed  with her all the same.  
Susan was the worst. "Supposing I started behaving like Lucy," she said. "I might  threaten to stay here whether the rest of you went on or not. I jolly well think I shall."  
"Obey the High King, your Majesty," said Trumpkin, "and let's be off. If I'm not to be  allowed to sleep, I'd as soon march as stand here talking."  
And so at last they got on the move. Lucy went first, biting her lip and trying not to say  all the things she thought of saying to Susan. But she forgot them when she fixed her eyes  on Aslan. He turned and walked at a slow pace about thirty yards ahead of them. The  others had only Lucy's directions to guide them, for Aslan was not only invisible to them  but silent as well. His big cat-like paws made no noise on the grass.  
He led them to the right of the dancing trees - whether they were still dancing nobody  knew, for Lucy had her eyes on the Lion and the rest had their eyes on Lucy - and nearer  the edge of the gorge. "Cobbles and kettledrums!" thought Trumpkin. "I hope this  madness isn't going to end in a moonlight climb and broken necks."  
For a long way Aslan went along the top of the precipices. Then they came to a place  where some little trees grew right on the edge. He turned and disappeared among them.  Lucy held her breath, for it looked as if he had plunged over the cliff; but she was too  busy keeping him in sight to stop and think about this. She quickened her pace and was  soon among the trees herself. Looking down, she could see a steep and narrow path going  slantwise down into the gorge between rocks, and Aslan descending it. He turned and  looked at her with his happy eyes. Lucy clapped her hands and began to scramble down  after him. From behind her she heard the voices of the others shouting, "Hi! Lucy! Look  out, for goodness' sake. You're right on the edge of the gorge. Come back - "and then, a  moment later, Edmund's voice saying, "No, she's right. There is a way down."  
Half-way down the path Edmund caught up with her.  
"Look!" he said in great excitement. "Look! What's that shadow crawling down in front  of us?"  
"It's his shadow," said Lucy.  
"I do believe you're right, Lu," said Edmund. "I can't think how I didn't see it before. But  where is he?"  
"With his shadow, of course. Can't you see him?"  
"Well, I almost thought I did - for a moment. It's such a rum light."  
 
 "Get on, King Edmund, get on," came Trumpkin's voice from behind and above: and  then, farther behind and still nearly at the top, Peter's voice saying, "Oh, buck up, Susan.  Give me your hand. Why, a baby could get down here. And do stop grousing."  
In a few minutes they were at the bottom and the roaring of water filled their ears.  Treading delicately, like a cat, Aslan stepped from stone to stone across the stream. In the  middle he stopped, bent down to drink, and as he raised his shaggy head, dripping from  the water, he turned to face them again. This time Edmund saw him. "Oh, Aslan!" he  cried, darting forward. But the Lion whisked round and began padding up the slope on  the far side of the Rush.  
"Peter, Peter," cried Edmund. "Did you see?"  
"I saw something," said Peter. "But it's so tricky in this moonlight. On we go, though, and  three cheers for Lucy. I don't feel half so tired now, either."  
Aslan without hesitation led them to their left, farther up the gorge. The whole journey  was odd and dream-like the roaring stream, the wet grey grass, the glimmering cliffs  which they were approaching, and always the glorious, silently pacing Beast ahead.  Everyone except Susan and the Dwarf could see him now.  
Presently they came to another steep path, up the face of the farther precipices. These  were far higher than the ones they had just descended, and the journey up them was a  long and tedious zig-zag. Fortunately the Moon shone right above the gorge so that  neither side was in shadow.  
Lucy was nearly blown when the tail and hind legs of Aslan disappeared over the top: but  with one last effort she scrambled after him and came out, rather shaky-legged and  breathless, on the hill they had been trying to reach ever since they left Glasswater. The  long gentle slope (heather and grass and a few very big rocks that shone white in the  moonlight) stretched up to where it vanished in a glimmer of trees about half a mile  away. She knew it. It was the hill of the Stone Table:  
With a jingling of mail the others climbed up behind her. Aslan glided on before them  and they walked after him.  
"Lucy," said Susan in a very small voice.  
"Yes?" said Lucy.  
"I see him now. I'm sorry."  
"That's all right."  
"But I've been far worse than you know. I really believed it was him - he, I mean -  yesterday. When he warned us not to go down to the fir wood. And I really believed it    
 was him tonight, when you woke us up. I mean, deep down inside. Or I could have, if I'd  let myself. But I just wanted to get out of the woods and - and - oh, I don't know. And  what ever am I to say to him?"  
"Perhaps you won't need to say much," suggested Lucy.  
Soon they reached the trees and through them the children could see the Great Mound,  Aslan's How, which had been raised over the Table since their days.  
"Our side don't keep very good watch," muttered Trumpkin. "We ought to have been  challenged before now -"  
"Hush!" said the other four, for now Aslan had stopped and turned and stood facing them,  looking so majestic that they felt as glad as anyone can who feels afraid, and as afraid as  anyone can who feels glad. The boys strode forward: Lucy made way for them: Susan  and the Dwarf shrank back.  
"Oh, Aslan," said King Peter, dropping on one knee and raising the Lion's heavy paw to  his face, "I'm so glad. And I'm so sorry. I've been leading them wrong ever since we  started and especially yesterday morning."  
"My dear son," said Aslan.  
Then he turned and welcomed Edmund. "Well done," were his words.  
Then, after an awful pause, the deep voice said, "Susan." Susan made no answer but the  others thought she was crying. "You have listened to fears, child," said Aslan. "Come, let  me breathe on you. Forget them. Are you brave again?"  
"A little, Aslan," said Susan.  
"And now!" said Aslan in a much louder voice with just a hint of roar in it, while his tail  lashed his flanks. "And now, where is this little Dwarf, this famous swordsman and  archer, who doesn't believe in lions? Come here, son of Earth, come HERE!" - and the  last word was no longer the hint of a roar but almost the real thing.  
"Wraiths and wreckage!" gasped Trumpkin in the ghost of a voice. The children, who  knew Aslan well enough to see that he liked the Dwarf very much, were not disturbed;  but it was quite another thing for Trumpkin, who had never seen a lion before, let alone  this Lion. He did the only sensible thing he could have done; that is, instead of bolting, he  tottered towards Aslan.  
Aslan pounced. Have you ever seen a very young kitten being carried in the mother cat's  mouth? It was like that. The Dwarf, hunched up in a little, miserable ball, hung from  Aslan's mouth. The Lion gave him one shake and all his armour rattled like a tinker's  pack and then - heypresto - the Dwarf flew up in the air. He was as safe as if he had been    
 in bed, though he did not feel so. As he came down the huge velvety paws caught him as  gently as a mother's arms and set him (right way up, too) on the ground.  
"Son of Earth, shall we be friends?" asked Aslan.  
"Ye - he - he - hes," panted the Dwarf, for it had not yet got its breath back.  
"Now," said Aslan. "The Moon is setting. Look behind you: there is the dawn beginning.  We have no time to lose. You three, you sons of Adam and son of Earth, hasten into the  Mound and deal with what you will find there."  
The Dwarf was still speechless and neither of the boys dared to ask if Aslan would follow  them. All three drew their swords and saluted, then turned and jingled away into the dusk.  Lucy noticed that there was no sign of weariness in their faces: both the High King and  King Edmund looked more like men than boys.  
The girls watched them out of sight, standing close beside Aslan. The light was changing.  Low down in the east, Aravir, the morning star of Narnia, gleamed like a little moon.  Aslan, who seemed larger than before, lifted his head, shook his mane, and roared.  
The sound, deep and throbbing at first like an organ beginning on a low note, rose and  became louder, and then far louder again, till the earth and air were shaking with it. It  rose up from that hill and floated across all Narnia. Down in Miraz's camp men woke,  stared palely in one another's faces, and grasped their weapons. Down below that in the  Great River, now at its coldest hour, the heads and shoulders of the nymphs, and the great  weedy-bearded head of the river-god, rose from the water. Beyond it, in every field and  wood, the alert ears of rabbits rose from their holes, the sleepy heads of birds came out  from under wings, owls hooted, vixens barked, hedgehogs grunted, the trees stirred. In  towns and villages mothers pressed babies close to their breasts, staring with wild eyes,  dogs whimpered, and men leaped up groping for lights. Far away on the northern frontier  the mountain giants peered from the dark gateways of their castles.  
What Lucy and Susan saw was a dark something coming to them from almost every  direction across the hills. It looked first like a black mist creeping on the ground, then like  the stormy waves of a black sea rising higher and higher as it came on, and then, at last,  like what it was woods on the move. All the trees of the world appeared to be rushing  towards Aslan. But as they drew nearer they looked less like trees; and when the whole  crowd, bowing and curtsying and waving thin long arms to Aslan, were all around Lucy,  she saw that it was a crowd of human shapes. Pale birch-girls were tossing their heads,  willowwomen pushed back their hair from their brooding faces to gaze on Aslan, the  queenly beeches stood still and adored him, shaggy oak-men, lean and melancholy elms,  shockheaded hollies (dark themselves, but their wives all bright with berries) and gay  rowans, all bowed and rose again, shouting, "Aslan, Aslan!" in their various husky or  creaking or wave-like voices.  
 
 The crowd and the dance round Aslan (for it had become a dance once more) grew so  thick and rapid that Lucy was confused. She never saw where certain other people came  from who were soon capering about among the trees. One was a youth, dressed only in a  fawn-skin, with vine-leaves wreathed in his curly hair. His face would have been almost  too pretty for a boy's, if it had not looked, so extremely wild. You felt, as Edmund said  when he saw him a few days later, "There's a chap who might do anything absolutely  anything." He seemed to have a great many names - Bromios, Bassareus, and the Ram  were three of them. There were a lot of girls with him, as wild as he. There was even,  unexpectedly, someone on a donkey. And everybody was laughing: and everybody was  shouting out, "Euan, euan, eu-oi-oi-oi."  
"Is it a Romp, Aslan?" cried the youth. And apparently it was. But nearly everyone  seemed to have a different idea as to what they were playing. It may have been Tig, but  Lucy never discovered who was It. It was rather like Blind Man's Buff, only everyone  behaved as if they were blindfolded. It was not unlike Hunt the Slipper, but the slipper  was never found. What made it more complicated was that the man on the donkey, who  was old and enormously fat, began calling out at once, "Refreshments! Time for  refreshments," and falling off his donkey and being bundled on to it again by the others,  while the donkey was under the impression that the whole thing was a circus and tried to  give a display of walking on its hind legs. And all the time there were more and more  vine leaves everywhere. And soon not only leaves but vines. They were climbing up  everything. They were running up the legs of the tree people and circling round their  necks. Lucy put up her hands to push back her hair and found she was pushing back vine  branches. The donkey was a mass of them. His tail was completely entangled and  something dark was nodding between his ears. Lucy looked again and saw it was a bunch  of grapes. After that it was mostly grapes overhead and underfoot and all around.  
"Refreshments! Refreshments," roared the old man.  
Everyone began eating, and whatever hothouses your people may have, you have never  tasted such grapes. Really good grapes, firm and tight on the outside, but bursting into  cool sweetness when you put them into your mouth, were one of the things the girls had  never had quite enough of before. Here, there were more than anyone could possibly  want, and rib table-manners at all. One saw sticky and stained fingers everywhere, and,  though mouths were full, the laughter never ceased nor the yodelling cries of Euan, euan,  eu-oi-oi-oi-oi, till all of a sudden everyone felt at the same moment that the game  (whatever it was), and the feast, ought to be over, and everyone flopped down breathless  on the ground and turned their faces to Aslan to hear what he would say next.  
At that moment the sun was just rising and Lucy remembered something and whispered  to Susan,  
"I say, Su, I know who they are."  
"Who?"  
 
 "The boy with the wild face is Bacchus and the old one on the donkey is Silenus. Don't  you remember Mr Tumnus telling us about them long ago?"  
"Yes, of course. But I say, Lu "  
"What?"  
"I wouldn't have felt safe with Bacchus and all his wild girls if we'd met them without  Aslan."  
"I should think not," said Lucy.  

CHAPTER TWELVE  
SORCERY AND SUDDEN VENGEANCE  
MEANWHILE Trumpkin and the two boys arrived at the dark little stone archway which  led into the inside of the Mound, and two sentinel badgers (the white patches on their  cheeks were all Edmund could see of them) leaped up with bared teeth and asked them in  snarling voices, "Who goes there?"  
"Trumpkin," said the Dwarf. "Bringing the High King of Narnia out of the far past."  
The badgers nosed at the boys' hands. "At last," they said. "At last."  
"Give us a light, friends," said Trumpkin.  
The badgers found a torch just inside the arch and Peter lit it and handed it to Trumpkin.  "The D.L.F. had better lead," he said. "We don't know our way about this place."  
Trumpkin took the torch and went ahead into the dark tunnel. It was a cold, black, musty  place, with an occasional bat fluttering in the torchlight, and plenty of cobwebs. The  boys, who had been mostly in the open air since that morning at the railway station, felt  as if they were going into a trap or a prison.  
"I say, Peter," whispered Edmund. "Look at those carvings on the walls. Don't they look  old? And yet we're older than that. When we were last here, they hadn't been made."  
"Yes," said Peter. "That makes one think."  
The Dwarf went on ahead and then turned to the right, and then to the left, and then down  some steps, and then to the left again. Then at last they saw a light ahead - light from  under a door. And now for the first time they heard voices, for they had come to the door    
 of the central chamber. The voices inside were angry ones. Someone was talking so  loudly that the approach of the boys and the Dwarf had not been heard.  
"Don't like the sound of that," whispered Trumpkin to Peter. "Let's listen for a moment."  All three stood perfectly still on the outside of the door.  
"You know well enough," said a voice ("That's the King," whispered Trumpkin), "why  the Horn was not blown at sunrise this morning. Have you forgotten that Miraz fell upon  us almost before Trumpkin had gone, and we were fighting for our lives for the space of  three hours and more? I blew it when first I had a breathing space."  
"I'm not likely to forget it," came the angry voice, "when my Dwarfs bore the brunt of the  attack and one in five of them fell." ("That's Nikabrik," whispered Trumpkin.)  
"For shame, Dwarf," came a thick voice ("Trufflehunter's," said Trumpkin). "We all did  as much as the Dwarfs and none more than the King."  
"Tell that tale your own way for all I care," answered Nikabrik. "But whether it was that  the Horn was blown too late, or whether there was no magic in it, no help has come. You,  you great clerk, you master magician, you know-all; are you still asking us to hang our  hopes on Aslan and King Peter and all the rest of it?"  
"I must confess - I cannot deny it - that I am deeply disappointed in the result of the  operation," came the answer. ("That'll be Doctor Cornelius," said Trumpkin.)  
"To speak plainly," said Nikabrik, "your wallet's empty, your eggs addled, your fish  uncaught, your promises broken. Stand aside then and let others work. And that is why -"  
"The help will come," said Trufflehunter. "I stand by Aslan. Have patience, like us  beasts. The help will come. It may be even now at the door."  
"Pah!" snarled Nikabrik. "You badgers would have us wait till the sky falls and we can  all catch larks. I tell you we can't wait. Food is running short; we lose more than we can  afford at every encounter; our followers are slipping away."  
"And why?" asked Trufflehunter. "I'll tell you why. Because it is noised among them that  we have called on the Kings of old and the Kings of old have not answered. The last  words Trumpkin spoke before he went (and went, most likely, to his death) were, `If you  must blow the Horn, do not let the army know why you blow it or what you hope from it.'  But that same evening everyone seemed to know."  
"You'd better have shoved your grey snout in a hornets' nest, Badger, than suggest that I  am the blab," said Nikabrik. "Take it back, or-"  
"Oh, stop it, both of you," said King Caspian. "I want to know what it is that Nikabrik  keeps on hinting we should do. But before that, I want to know who those two strangers    
 are whom he has brought into our council and who stand there with their ears open and  their mouths shut."  
"They are friends of mine," said Nikabrik. "And what better right have you yourself to be  here than that you are a friend of Trumpkin's and the Badger's? And what right has that  old dotard in the black gown to be here except that he is your friend? Why am I to be the  only one who can't bring in his friends?"  
"His Majesty is the King to whom you have sworn allegiance," said Trufflehunter sternly.  
"Court manners, court manners," sneered Nikabrik. "But in this hole we may talk plainly.  You know - and he knows that this Telmarine boy will be king of nowhere and nobody in  a week unless we can help him out of the trap in which he sits."  
"Perhaps," said Cornelius, "your new friends would like to speak for themselves? You  there, who and what are you?"  
"Worshipful Master Doctor," came a thin, whining voice. "So please you, I'm only a poor  old woman, I am, and very obliged to his Worshipful Dwarfship for his friendship, I'm  sure. His Majesty, bless his handsome face, has no need to be afraid of an old woman  that's nearly doubled up with the rheumatics and hasn't two sticks to put under her kettle.  I have some poor little skill - not like yours, Master Doctor, of course - in small spells  and cantrips that I'd be glad to use against our enemies if it was agreeable to all  concerned. For I hate 'em. Oh yes. No one hates better than me."  
"That is all most interesting and - er - satisfactory," said Doctor Cornelius. "I think I now  know what you are, Madam. Perhaps your other friend, Nikabrik, would give some  account of himself?"  
A dull, grey voice at which Peter's flesh crept replied, "I'm hunger. I'm thirst. Where I  bite, I hold till I die, and even after death they must cut out my mouthful from my  enemy's body and bury it with me. I can fast a hundred years and not die. I can lie a  hundred nights on the ice and not freeze. I can drink a river of blood and not burst. Show  me your enemies."  
"And it is in the presence of these two that you wish to disclose your plan?" said Caspian.  
"Yes," said Nikabrik. "And by their help that I mean to execute it."  
There was a minute or two during which Trumpkin and the boys could hear Caspian and  his two friends speaking in low voices but could not make out what they were saying.  Then Caspian spoke aloud.  
"Well, Nikabrik," he said, "we will hear your plan."  
 
 There was a pause so long that the boys began to wonder if Nikabrik was ever going to  begin; when he did, it was in a lower voice, as if he himself did not much like what he  was saying.  
"All said and done," he muttered, "none of us knows the truth about the ancient days in  Narnia. Trumpkin believed none of the stories. I was ready to put them to the trial. We  tried first the Horn and it has failed. If there ever was a High King Peter and a Queen  Susan and a King Edmund and a Queen Lucy, then either they have not heard us, or they  cannot come, or they are our enemies -"  
"Or they are on the way," put in Trufflehunter.  
"You can go on saying that till Miraz has fed us all to his dogs. As I was saying, we have  tried one link in the chain of old legends, and it has done us no good. Well. But when  your sword breaks, you draw your dagger. The stories tell of other powers beside the  ancient Kings and Queens. How if we could call them up?"  
"If you mean Aslan," said Trufflehunter, "it's all one calling on him and on the Kings.  They were his servants. If he will not send them (but I make no doubt he will), is he more  likely to come himself?"  
"No. You're right there," said Nikabrik. "Aslan and the Kings go together. Either Aslan is  dead, or he is not on our side. Or else something stronger than himself keeps him back.  And if he did come - how do we know he'd be our friend? He was not always a good  friend to Dwarfs by all that's told. Not even to all beasts. Ask the Wolves. And anyway,  he was in Narnia only once that I ever heard of, and he didn't stay long. You may drop  Aslan out of the reckoning. I was thinking of someone else."  
There was no answer, and for a few minutes it was so still that Edmund could hear the  wheezy and snuffling breath of the Badger.  
"Who do you mean?" said Caspian at last.  
"I mean a power so much greater than Aslan's that it held Narnia spellbound for years and  years, if the stories are true."  
"The White Witch!" cried three voices all at once, and from the noise Peter guessed that  three people had leaped to their feet.  
"Yes," said Nikabrik very slowly and distinctly, "I mean the Witch. Sit down again. Don't  all take fright at a name as if you were children. We want power: and we want a power  that will be on our side. As for power, do not the stories say that the Witch defeated  Aslan, and bound him, and killed him on that very stone which is over there, just beyond  the light?"  
"But they also say that he came to life again," said the Badger sharply.    
"Yes, they say," answered Nikabrik, "but you'll notice that we hear precious little about  anything he did afterwards. He just fades out of the story. How do you explain that, if he  really came to life? Isn't it much more likely that he didn't, and that the stories say  nothing more about him because there was nothing more to say?"  
"He established the Kings and Queens," said Caspian.  
"A King who has just won a great battle can usually establish himself without the help of  a performing lion," said Nikabrik. There was a fierce growl, probably from Trufflehunter.  
"And anyway," Nikabrik continued, "what came of the Kings and their reign? They faded  too. But it's very different with the Witch. They say she ruled for a hundred years: a  hundred years of winter. There's power, if you like. There's something practical."   
"But, heaven and earth!" said the King, "haven't we always been told that she was the  worst enemy of all? Wasn't she a tyrant ten times worse than Miraz?"  
"Perhaps," said Nikabrik in a cold voice. "Perhaps she was for you humans, if there were  any of you in those days. Perhaps she was for some of the beasts. She stamped out the  Beavers, I dare say; at least there are none of them in Narnia now. But she got on all right  with us Dwarfs. I'm a Dwarf and I stand by my own people. We're not afraid of the  Witch."  
"But you've joined with us," said Trufflehunter.  
"Yes, and a lot of good it has done my people, so far," snapped Nikabrik. "Who is sent on  all the dangerous !, raids? The Dwarfs. Who goes short when the rations fail? The  Dwarfs. Who -?"  
"Lies! All lies!" said the Badger.  
"And so," said Nikabrik, whose voice now rose to a scream, "if you can't help my people,  I'll go to someone who can."  
"Is this open treason, Dwarf?" asked the King.  
"Put that sword back in its sheath, Caspian," said Nikabrik. "Murder at council, eh? Is  that your game? Don't be fool enough to try it. Do you think I'm afraid of you? There's  three on my side, and three on yours."  
"Come on, then," snarled Trufflehunter, but he was immediately interrupted.  
"Stop, stop, stop," said Doctor Cornelius. "You go on too fast. The Witch is dead. All the  stories agree on that. What does Nikabrik mean by calling on the Witch?"    
That grey and terrible voice which had spoken only once before said, "Oh, is she?"  
And then the shrill, whining voice began, "Oh, bless his heart, his dear little Majesty  needn't mind about the White Lady - that's what we call her - being dead. The Worshipful  Master Doctor is only making game of a poor old woman like me when he says that.  Sweet Mastery Doctor, learned Master Doctor, who ever heard of a witch that really  died? You can always get them back."  
"Call her up," said the grey voice. "We are all ready. Draw the circle. Prepare the blue  fire."  
Above the steadily increasing growl of the Badger and Cornelius's sharp "What?" rose  the voice of King Caspian like thunder.  
"So that is your plan, Nikabrik! Black sorcery and the calling up of an accursed ghost.  And I see who your companions are-a Hag and a Werewolf!"  
The next minute or so was very confused. There was an animal roaring, a clash of steel;  the boys and Trumpkin rushed in; Peter had a glimpse of a horrible, grey, gaunt creature,  half man and half wolf, in the very act of leaping upon a boy about his own age, and  Edmund saw a badger and a Dwarf rolling on the floor in a sort of cat fight. Trumpkin  found himself face to face with the Hag. Her nose and chin stuck out like a pair of nut- crackers, her dirty grey hair was flying about her face and she had just got Doctor  Cornelius by the throat. At one slash of Trumpkin's sword her head rolled on the floor.  Then the light was knocked over and it was all swords, teeth, claws, fists, and boots for  about sixty seconds. Then silence.  
"Are you all right, Ed?"  
"I - I think so," panted Edmund. "I've got that brute Nikabrik, but he's still alive."  
"Weights and water-bottles!" came an angry voice. "It's me you're sitting on. Get off.  You're like a young elephant."  
"Sorry, D.L.F.," said Edmund. "Is that better?"  
"Ow! No!" bellowed Trumpkin. "You're putting your ' boot in my mouth. Go away." `  
"Is King Caspian anywhere?" asked Peter.  
"I'm here," said a rather faint voice. "Something bit me."  
They all heard the noise of someone striking a match. It was Edmund. The little flame  showed his face, looking pale and dirty. He blundered about for a little, found the candle  (they were no longer using the lamp, for they had run out of oil), set it on the table, and lit    
 it. When the flame rose clear, several people scrambled to their feet. Six faces blinked at  one another in the candlelight.  
"We don't seem to have any enemies left," said Peter. "There's the Hag, dead." (He turned  his eyes quickly away from her.) "And Nikabrik, dead too. And I suppose this thing is a  Werewolf. It's so long since I've seen one. Wolf's head and man's body. That means he  was just turning from man into wolf at the moment he was killed. And you, I suppose, are  King Caspian?"  
"Yes," said the other boy. "But I've no idea who you are."  
"It's the High King, King Peter," said Trumpkin.  
"Your Majesty is very welcome," said Caspian.  
"And so is your Majesty," said Peter. "I haven't come to take your place, you know, but to  put you into it." ,  
"Your Majesty," said another voice at Peter's elbow. He turned and found himself face to  face with the Badger.  
Peter leaned forward, put his arms round the beast and kissed the furry head: it wasn't a  girlish thing for him to do, because he was the High King.  
"Best of badgers," he said. "You never doubted us all through."  
"No credit to me, your Majesty," said Trufflehunter. "1'm a beast and we don't change.  I'm a badger, what's more, and we hold on."  
"I am sorry for Nikabrik," said Caspian, "though he hated me from the first moment he  saw me. He had gone sour inside from long suffering and hating. If we had won quickly  he might have become a good Dwarf in the days of peace. I don't know which of us killed  him. I'm glad of that."  
"You're bleeding," said Peter.  
"Yes, I'm bitten," said Caspian. "It was that - that wolf thing." Cleaning and bandaging  the wound took a long time, and when it was done Trumpkin said, "Now. Before  everything else we want some breakfast."  
"But not here," said Peter.  
"No," said Caspian with a shudder. "And we must send someone to take away the  bodies."  
 
 "Let the vermin be flung into a pit," said Peter. "But the Dwarf we will give to his people  to be buried in their own fashion."  
They breakfasted at last in another of the dark cellars of Aslan's How. It was not such a  breakfast as they would have chosen, for Caspian and Cornelius were thinking of venison  pasties, and Peter and Edmund of buttered eggs and hot coffee, but what everyone got  was a little bit of cold bear-meat (out of the boys' pockets), a lump of hard cheese, an  onion, and a mug of water. But, from the way they fell to, anyone would have supposed it  was delicious.  

CHAPTER THIRTEEN  
THE HIGH KING IN COMMAND  
"Now," said Peter, as they finished their meal, "Aslan and the girls (that's Queen Susan  and Queen Lucy, Caspian) are somewhere close. We don't know when he will act. In his  time, no doubt, not ours. In the meantime he would like us to do what we can on our own.  You say, Caspian, we are not strong enough to meet Miraz in pitched battle?"  
"I'm afraid not, High King," said Caspian. He was liking Peter very much, but was rather  tongue-tied. It was much stranger for him to meet the great Kings out of the old stories  than it was for them to meet him.  
"Very well, then," said Peter, "I'll send him a challenge to single combat." No one had  thought of this before.  
"Please," said Caspian, "could it not be me? I want to avenge my father."  
"You're wounded," said Peter. "And anyway, wouldn't he just laugh at a challenge from  you? I mean, we have seen that you are a king and a warrior but he thinks of you as a  kid."  
"But, Sire," said the Badger, who sat very close to Peter and never took his eyes off him.  "Will he accept a . challenge even from you? He knows he has the stronger . army."  
"Very likely he won't," said Peter, "but there's always the chance. And even if he doesn't,  we shall spend the best part of the day sending heralds to and fro and all that. By then  Aslan may have done something. And at least I can inspect the army and strengthen the  position. I will send the challenge. In fact I will write it at once. Have you pen and ink,  Master Doctor?"  
"A scholar is never without them, your Majesty," answered Doctor Cornelius.  
 
 "Very well, I will dictate," said Peter. And while the Doctor spread out a parchment and  opened his ink-horn and sharpened his pen, Peter leant back with half-closed eyes and  recalled to his mind the language in which he had written such things long ago in  Narnia's golden age.  
"Right," he said at last. "And now, if you are ready, Doctor?"  
Doctor Cornelius dipped his pen and waited. Peter dictated as follows:  
"Peter, by the gift of Aslan, by election, by prescription, and by conquest, High King over  all Kings in Narnia, Emperor of the Lone Islands and Lord of Cair Paravel, Knight of the  Most Noble Order of the Lion, to Miraz, Son of Caspian the Eighth, sometime Lord  Protector of Narnia and now styling himself King of Narnia, Greeting. Have you got  that?"  
"Narnia, comma, greeting," muttered the Doctor. "Yes, Sire."  
"Then begin a new paragraph," said Peter. "For to prevent the effusion of blood, and for  the avoiding all other inconveniences likely to grow from the wars now levied in our  realm of Narnia, it is our pleasure to adventure our royal person on behalf of our trusty  and well-beloved Caspian in clean wager of battle to prove upon your Lordship's body  that the said Caspian is lawful King under us in Narnia both by our gift and by the laws  of the Telmarines, and your Lordship twice guilty of treachery both in withholding the  dominion of Narnia from the said Caspian and in the most abhominable, - don't forget to  spell it with an H, Doctor - bloody, and unnatural murder of your kindly lord and brother  King Caspian Ninth of that name. Wherefore we most heartily provoke, challenge, and  defy your Lordship to the said combat and monomachy, and have sent these letters by the  hand of our well beloved and royal brother Edmund, sometime King under us in Narnia,  Duke of Lantern Waste and Count of the Western March, Knight of the Noble Order of  the Table, to whom we have given full power of determining with your Lordship all the  conditions of the said battle. Given at our lodging in Aslan's How this XII day of the  month Greenroof in the first year of Caspian Tenth of Narnia.  
"That ought to do," said Peter, drawing a deep breath.  
"And now we must send two others with King Edmund. I think the Giant ought to be  one."  
"He's - he's not very clever, you know," said Caspian.  
"Of course not," said Peter. "But any giant looks impressive if only he will keep quiet.  And it will cheer him up. But who for the other?"  
"Upon my word," said Trumpkin, "if you want someone who can kill with looks,  Reepicheep would be the best."  
 
 "He would indeed, from all I hear," said Peter with a laugh. "If only he wasn't so small.  They wouldn't even see him till he was close!"  
"Send Glenstorm, Sire," said Trufflehunter. "No one ever laughed at a Centaur."  
An hour later two great lords in the army of Miraz, the Lord Glozelle and the Lord  Sopespian, strolling along their lines and picking their teeth after breakfast, looked up  and saw coming down to them from the wood the Centaur and Giant Wimbleweather,  whom they had seen before in battle, and between them a figure they could not recognize.  Nor indeed would the other boys at Edmund's school have recognized him if they could  have seen him at that moment. For Aslan had breathed on him at their meeting and a kind  of greatness hung about him.  
"What's to do?" said the Lord Glozelle. "An attack?"  
"A parley, rather," said Sopespian. "See, they carry green branches. They are coming to  surrender most likely."  
"He that is walking between the Centaur and the Giant has no look of surrender in his  face," said Glozelle. "Who can he be? It is not the boy Caspian."  
"No indeed," said Sopespian. "This is a fell warrior, I warrant you, wherever the rebels  have got him from. He is (in your Lordship's private ear) a kinglier man than ever Miraz  was. And what mail he wears! None of our smiths can make the like."  
"I'll wager my dappled Pomely he brings a challenge, not a surrender," said Glozelle.  
"How then?" said Sopespian. "We hold the enemy in our fist here. Miraz would never be  so hair-brained as to throw away his advantage on a combat."  
"He might be brought to it," said Glozelle in a much lower voice.  
"Softly," said Sopespian. "Step a little aside here out of earshot of those sentries. Now.  Have I taken your Lordship's meaning aright?"  
"If the King undertook wager of battle," whispered Glozelle, "why, either he would kill  or be killed."  
"So," said Sopespian, nodding his head.  
"And if he killed we should have won this war."  
"Certainly. And if not?"  
 
 "Why, if not, we should be as able to win it without the King's grace as with him. For I  need not tell your Lordship that Miraz is no very great captain. And after that, we should  be both victorious and kingless."  
"And it is your meaning, my Lord, that you and I could hold this land quite as  conveniently without a King as with one?"  
Glozelle's face grew ugly. "Not forgetting," said he, "that it was we who first put him on  the throne. And in all the years that he has enjoyed it, what fruits have come our way?  What gratitude has he shown us?"  
"Say no more," answered Sopespian. "But look - herd comes one to fetch us to the King's  tent." `  
When they reached Miraz's tent they saw Edmund and his two companions seated outside  it and being entertained with cakes and wine, having already delivered the challenge, and  withdrawn while the King was considering it. When they saw them thus at close quarters  the two Telmarine lords thought all three of them very alarming.  
Inside, they found Miraz, unarmed and finishing his breakfast. His face was flushed and  there was a scowl on his brow.  
"There!" he growled, flinging the parchment across the table to them. "See what a pack of  nursery tales our jackanapes of a nephew has sent us."  
"By your leave, Sire," said Glozelle. "If the young warrior whom we have just seen  outside is the King Edmund mentioned in the writing, then I would not call him a nursery  tale but a very dangerous knight."  
"King Edmund, pah!" said Miraz. "Does your Lordship believe those old wives' fables  about Peter and Edmund and the rest?"  
"I believe my eyes, your Majesty," said Glozelle.  
"Well, this is to no purpose," said Miraz, "but as touching the challenge, I suppose there  is only one opinion between us?"  
"I suppose so, indeed, Sire," said Glozelle.  
"And what is that?" asked the King.  
"Most infallibly to refuse it," said Glozelle. "For though I have never been called a  coward, I must plainly say that to meet that young man in battle is more than my heart  would serve me for. And if (as is likely) his brother, the High King, is more dangerous  than he why, on your life, my Lord King, have nothing to do with him."  
 
 "Plague on you!" cried Miraz. "It was not that sort of council I wanted. Do you think I am  asking you if I should be afraid to meet this Peter (if there is such a man)? Do you think I  fear him? I wanted your counsel on the policy of the matter; whether we, having the  advantage, should hazard it on a wager of battle."  
"To which I can only answer, your Majesty," said Glozelle, "that for all reasons the  challenge should be refused. There is death in the strange knight's face."  
"There you are again!" said Miraz, now thoroughly angry. "Are you trying, to make it  appear that I am as great a coward as your Lordship?"  
"Your Majesty may say your pleasure," said Glozelle sulkily.  
"You talk like an old woman, Glozelle," said the King. "What say you, my Lord  Sopespian?"  
"Do not touch it, Sire," was the reply. "And what your Majesty says of the policy of the  thing comes in very happily. It gives your Majesty excellent grounds for a refusal without  any cause for questioning your Majesty's honour or courage."  
"Great Heaven!" exclaimed Miraz, jumping to his feet. "Are you also bewitched today?  Do you think I am looking for grounds to refuse it? You might as well call me coward to  my face."  
The conversation was going exactly as the two lords wished, so they said nothing.  
"I see what it is," said Miraz, after staring at them as if his eyes would start out of his  head, "you are as lilylivered as hares yourselves and have the effrontery to imagine my  heart after the likeness of yours! Grounds for a refusal, indeed! Excuses for not fighting!  Are you soldiers? Are you Telmarines? Are you men? And if I dog refuse it (as ail good  reasons of captaincy and martial policy urge me to do) you will think, and teach others  tan think, I was afraid. Is it not so?"  
"No man of your Majesty's age," said Glozelle, "would be called coward by any wise  soldier for refusing the combat with a great warrior in the flower of his youth."  
"So I'm to be a dotard with one foot in the grave, as well as a dastard," roared Miraz. "I'll  tell you what it is, my Lords. With your womanish counsels (ever shying from the true  point, which is one of policy) you have done the very opposite of your intent. I had meant  to refuse it. But I'll accept it. Do you hear, accept it! I'll not be shamed because some  witchcraft or treason has frozen both your bloods."  
"We beseech your Majesty -" said Glozelle, but Miraz had flung out of the tent and they  could hear him bawling out his acceptance to Edmund.  
The two lords looked at one another and chuckled quietly.    
"I knew he'd do it if he were properly chafed," said Glozelle. "But I'll not forget he called  me coward. It shall be paid for."  
There was a great stirring at Aslan's How when the news came back and was  communicated to the various creatures. Edmund, with one of Miraz's captains, had  already marked out the place for the combat, and ropes and stakes had been put round it.  Two Telmarines were to stand at two of the corners, and one in the middle of one side, as  marshals of the lists. Three marshals for the other two corners and the other side were to  be furnished by the High King. Peter was just explaining to Caspian that he could not be  one, because his right to the throne was what they were fighting about, when suddenly a  thick, sleepy voice said, "Your Majesty, please." Peter turned and there stood the eldest  of the Bulgy Bears.  
"If you please, your Majesty," he said, "I'm a bear, I am."  
"To be sure, so you are, and a good bear too, I don't doubt," said Peter.  
"Yes," said the Bear. "But it was always a right of the, bears to supply one marshal of the  lists."  
"Don't let him," whispered Trumpkin to Peter. "He's a good creature, but he'll shame us  all. He'll go to sleep and he will suck his paws. In front of the enemy too."  
"I can't help that," said Peter. "Because he's quite right. The Bears had that privilege. I  can't imagine how it has been remembered all these years, when so many other things  have been forgotten."  
"Please, your Majesty," said the Bear.  
"It is your right," said Peter. "And you shall be one of the marshals. But you must  remember not to suck your paws."  
"Of course not," said the Bear in a very shocked voice.  
"Why, you're doing it this minute!" bellowed Trumpkin.  
The Bear whipped his paw out of his mouth and pretended he hadn't heard.  
"Sire!" came a shrill voice from near the ground.  
"Ah - Reepicheep!" said Peter after looking up and down and round as people usually did  when addressed by the Mouse.  
"Sire," said Reepicheep. "My life is ever at your command, but my honour is my own.  Sire, I have among my people the only trumpeter in your Majesty's army. I had thought,    
 perhaps, we might have been sent with the challenge. Sire, my people are grieved.  Perhaps if it were your pleasure that I should be a marshal of the lists, it would content  them."  
A noise not unlike thunder broke out from somewhere overhead at this point, as Giant  Wimbleweather burst into one of those not very intelligent laughs to which the nicer sorts  of Giant are so liable. He checked himself at once and looked as grave as a turnip by the  time Reepicheep discovered where the noise came from.  
"I am afraid it would not do," said Peter very gravely. "Some humans are afraid of mice - "  
"I had observed it, Sire," said Reepicheep.  
"And it would not be quite fair to Miraz," Peter continued, "to have in sight anything that  might abate the edge of his courage."  
"Your Majesty is the mirror of honour," said the Mouse with one of his admirable bows.  "And on this matter we have but a single mind... I thought I heard someone laughing just  now. If anyone present wishes to make me the subject of his wit, I am very much at his  service - with my sword - whenever he has leisure."  
An awful silence followed this remark, which was broken by Peter saying, "Giant  Wimbleweather and the Bear and the Centaur Glenstorm shall be our marshals. The  combat will be at two hours after noon. Dinner at noon precisely."  
"I say," said Edmund as they walked away, "I suppose it is all right. I mean, I suppose  you can beat him?"  
"That's what I'm fighting him to find out," said Peter.  

CHAPTER FOURTEEN  
HOW ALL WERE VERY BUSY  
A LITTLE before two o'clock Trumpkin and the Badger sat with the rest of the creatures  at the wood's edge looking across at the gleaming line of Miraz's army which was about  two arrow-shots away. In between, a square space of level grass had been staked for the  combat. At the two far corners stood Glozelle and Sopespian with drawn swords. At the  near corners were Giant Wimbleweather and the Bulgy Bear, who in spite of all their  warnings was sucking his paws and looking, to tell the truth, uncommonly silly. To make  up for this, Glenstorm on the right of the lists, stock-still except when he stamped a hind  hoof occasionally on the turf, looked much more imposing than the Telmarine baron who    
 faced him on the left. Peter had just shaken hands with Edmund and the Doctor, and was  now walking down to the combat. It was like the moment before the pistol goes at an  important race, but very much worse.  
"I wish Aslan had turned up before it came to this," said Trumpkin.  
"So do I," said Trufflehunter. "But look behind you."  
"Crows and crockery!" muttered the Dwarf as soon as he had done so. "What are they?  Huge people - beautiful people - like gods and goddesses and giants. Hundreds and  thousands of them, closing in behind us. What are they?"  
"It's the Dryads and Hamadryads and Silvans," said Trufflehunter. "Aslan has waked  them."  
"Humph!" said the Dwarf. "That'll be very useful if the enemy try any treachery. But it  won't help the High King very much if Miraz proves handier with his sword."  
The Badger said nothing, for now Peter and Miraz were entering the lists from opposite  ends, both on foot, both in chain shirts, with helmets and shields. They advanced till they  were close together. Both bowed and seemed to speak,, but it was impossible to hear  what they said. Next moment, the two swords flashed in the sunlight. For a second the  clash could be heard but it was immediately drowned because both armies began  shouting like crowds at a football match.  
"Well done, Peter, oh, well done!" shouted Edmund as he saw Miraz reel back a whole  pace and a half. "Follow it up, quick!" And Peter did, and for a few seconds it looked as  if the fight might be won. But then Miraz pulled himself together - began to make real  use of his height and weight "Miraz! Miraz! The King! The King!" came the roar of the  Telmarines. Caspian and Edmund grew white with sickening anxiety.  
"Peter is taking some dreadful knocks," said Edmund.  
"Hullo!" said Caspian. "What's happening now?"  
"Both falling apart," said Edmund. "A bit blown, expect. Watch. Ah, now they're  beginning again, more scientifically this time. Circling round and round, feeling each  other's defences."  
"I'm afraid this Miraz knows his work," muttered the Doctor. But hardly had he said this  when there was such a clapping and baying and throwing up of hoods among the Old  Narnians that it was nearly deafening.  
"What was it? What was it?" asked the Doctor. "My old eyes missed it."  
 
 "The High King has pricked him in the arm-pit," said Caspian, still clapping. "Just where  the arm-hole of the hauberk let the point through. First blood.'  
"It's looking ugly again now, though," said Edmund. "Peter's not using his shield  properly. He must be hurt in the left arm."  
It was only too true. Everyone could see that Peter's shield hung limp. The shouting of  the Telmarines redoubled.  
"You've seen more battles than I," said Caspian. "Is there any chance now?"  
"Precious little," said Edmund. "I suppose he might just do it. With luck."  
"Oh, why did we let it happen at all?" said Caspian.  
Suddenly all the shouting on both sides died down. Edmund was puzzled for a moment.  Then he said, "Oh, I see. They've both agreed to a rest. Come on, Doctor. You and I may  be able to do something for the High King.' They ran down to the lists and Peter came  outside the ropes to meet them, his face red and sweaty, his chest heaving.  
"Is your left arm wounded?" asked Edmund.  
"It's not exactly a wound," Peter said. "I got the weight of his shoulder on my shield - like  a load of bricks and the rim of the shield drove into my wrist. I don't think it's broken, but  it might be a sprain. If you could tie it up very tight I think I could manage."  
While they were doing this, Edmund asked anxiously. "What do you think of him,  Peter?"  
"Tough," said Peter. "Very tough. I have a chance if can keep him on the hop till his  weight and short wind come against him - in this hot sun too. To tell the truth, I haven't  much chance else. Give my love to - to everyone at home, Ed, if he gets me. Here he  comes into the lists again  
So long, old chap. Good-bye, Doctor. And I say, Ed, say something specially nice to  Trumpkin. He's been a brick."  
Edmund couldn't speak. He walked back with the Doctor to his own lines with a sick  feeling in his stomach.  
But the new bout went well. Peter now seemed to be able to make some use of his shield,  and he certainly made good use of his feet. He was almost playing Tig with Miraz now,  keeping out of range, shifting his ground, making the enemy work.  
"Coward!" booed the Telmarines. "Why don't you stand up to him? Don't you like it, eh?  Thought you'd come to fight, not dance. Yah!"    
"Oh, I do hope he won't listen to them," said Caspian.  
"Not he," said Edmund. "You don't know him - Oh!" for Miraz had got in a blow at last,  on Peter's helmet. Peter staggered, slipped sideways, and fell on one knee. The roar of the  Telmarines rose like the noise of the sea. "Now, Miraz," they yelled. "Now. Quick!  Quick! Kill him." But indeed there was no need to egg the usurper on. He was on top of  Peter already. Edmund bit his lips till the blood came, as the sword flashed down on  Peter. It looked as if it would slash off his head. Thank heavens! It had glanced down his  right shoulder. The Dwarf-wrought mail was sound and did not break.  
"Great Scott!" cried Edmund. "He's up again. Peter, go it, Peter."  
"I couldn't see what happened," said the Doctor. "How did he do it?"  
"Grabbed Miraz's arm as it came down," said Trumpkin, dancing with delight. "There's a  man for you! Uses his enemy's arm as a ladder. The High King! The High King! Up, Old  Narnia!"  
"Look," said Trufflehunter. "Miraz is angry. It is good." They were certainly at it hammer  and tongs now: such a flurry of blows that it seemed impossible for either not to be killed.  As the excitement grew, the shouting almost died away. The spectators were holding  their breath. It was most horrible and most magnificent.  
A great shout arose from the Old Narnians. Miraz was a down - not struck by Peter, but  face downwards, having tripped on a tussock. Peter stepped back, waiting for him to rise.  
"Oh bother, bother, bother," said Edmund to himself. "Need he be as gentlemanly as all  that? I suppose he must. Comes of being a Knight and a High King. I suppose it is what  Aslan would like. But that brute will be up again in a minute and then -"  
But "that brute" never rose. The Lords Glozelle and Sopespian had their own plans ready.  As soon as they saw their King down they leaped into the lists crying, "Treachery!  Treachery! The Narnian traitor has stabbed him in the back while he lay helpless. To  arms! To arms, Telmar!"  
Peter hardly understood what was happening. He saw two big men running towards him  with drawn swords. Then the third Telmarine had leaped over the ropes on his; left. "To  arms, Narnia! Treachery!" Peter shouted. If all three had set upon him at once he would  never have spoken again. But Glozelle stopped to stab his own King dead where he lay:  "That's for your insult, this morning," he whispered as the blade went home. Peter swung  to face Sopespian, slashed his legs from under him and, with the back-cut of the same  stroke, walloped off his head Edmund was now at his side crying, "Narnia, Narnia! The  Lion!" The whole Telmarine army was rushing toward them. But now the Giant was  stamping forward, stooping low and swinging his club. The Centaurs charged. Twang,    
 twang behind and hiss, hiss overhead came the archery of Dwarfs. Trumpkin was fighting  at his left. Full battle was joined.  
"Come back, Reepicheep, you little ass!" shouted Peter. "You'll only be killed. This is no  place for mice." But the ridiculous little creatures were dancing in and out among the feet  of both armies, jabbing with their swords. Many a Telmarine warrior that day felt his foot  suddenly pierced as if by a dozen skewers, hopped on one leg cursing the pain, and fell as  often as not. If he fell, the mice finished him off; if he did not, someone else did.  
But almost before the Old Narnians were really warmed to their work they found the  enemy giving way. Toughlooking warriors turned white, gazed in terror not on the Old  Narnians but on something behind them, and then flung down their weapons, shrieking,  "The Wood! The Wood! The end of the world!"  
But soon neither their cries nor the sound of weapons could be heard any more, for both  were drowned in the ocean-like roar of the Awakened Trees as they plunged through the  ranks of Peter's army, and then on, in pursuit of the Telmarines. Have you ever stood at  the edge of a great wood on a high ridge when a wild south-wester broke over it in full  fury on an autumn evening? Imagine that sound. And then imagine that the wood, instead  of being fixed to one place, was rushing at you; and was no longer trees but huge people;  yet still like trees because their long arms waved like branches and their heads tossed and  leaves fell round them in showers. It was like that for the Telmarines. It was a little  alarming even for the Narnians. In a few minutes all Miraz's followers were running  down to the Great River in the hope of crossing the bridge to the town of Beruna and  there defending themselves behind ramparts and closed gates.  
They reached the river, but there was no bridge. It had disappeared since yesterday. Then  utter panic and horror fell upon them and they all surrendered.  
But what had happened to the bridge?  
Early that morning, after a few hours' sleep, the girls had waked, to see Aslan standing  over them and to hear his voice saying, "We will make holiday." They rubbed their eyes  and looked round them. The trees had all gone but could still be seen moving away  towards Aslan's How in a dark mass. Bacchus and the Maenads - his fierce, madcap girls  - and Silenus were still with them. Lucy, fully rested, jumped up. Everyone was awake,  everyone was laughing, flutes were playing, cymbals clashing. Animals, not Talking  Animals, were crowding in upon them from every direction.  
"What is it, Aslan?" said Lucy, her eyes dancing and her feet wanting to dance.  
"Come, children," said he. "Ride on my back again today."  
"Oh, lovely!" cried Lucy, and both girls climbed on to the warm golden back as they had  done no one knew how many years before. Then the whole party moved off Aslan    
 leading, Bacchus and his Maenads leaping, rushing, and turning somersaults, the beasts  frisking round them, and Silenus and his donkey bringing up the rear.  
They turned a little to the right, raced down a steep hill, and found the long Bridge of  Beruna in front of them. Before they had begun to cross it, however, up out of the water  came a great wet, bearded head, larger than a man's, crowned with rushes. It looked at  Aslan and out of its mouth a deep voice came.  
"Hail, Lord," it said. "Loose my chains."  
"Who on earth is that?" whispered Susan.  
"I think it's the river-god, but hush," said Lucy.  
"Bacchus," said Aslan. "Deliver him from his chains."  
"That means the bridge, I expect," thought Lucy. And so it did. Bacchus and his people  splashed forward into the shallow water, and a minute later the most curious things began  happening. Great, strong trunks of ivy came curling up all the piers of the bridge,  growing as quickly as a fire grows, wrapping the stones round, splitting, breaking,  separating them. The walls of the bridge turned into hedges gay with hawthorn for a  moment and then disappeared as the whole thing with a rush and a rumble collapsed into  the swirling water. With much splashing, screaming, and laughter the revellers waded or  swam or danced across the ford ("Hurrah! It's the Ford of Beruna again now!" cried the  girls) and up the bank on the far side and into the town.  
Everyone in the streets fled before their faces. The first house they came to was a school:  a girls' school, where lot of Narnian girls, with their hair done very tight and ugly tight  collars round their necks and thick tickly stockings on their legs, were having a history  lesson. The sort of "History" that was taught in Narnia under Miraz's rule was duller than  the truest history you ever read and less true than the most exciting adventure story.  
"If you don't attend, Gwendolen," said the mistress, and stop looking out of the window, I  shall have to give you an order-mark."  
"But please, Miss Prizzle -" began Gwendolen.  
"Did you hear what I said, Gwendolen?" asked Miss Prizzle.  
"But please, Miss Prizzle," said Gwendolen, "there's a LION!"  
"Take two order-marks for talking nonsense," said Miss Prizzle. "And now -" A roar  interrupted her. Ivy came curling in at the windows of the classroom. The walls became a  mass of shimmering green, and leafy branches arched overhead where the ceiling had  been. Miss Prizzle found she was standing on grass in a forest glade. She clutched at her  desk to steady herself, and found that the desk was a rose-bush. Wild people such as she    
 had never even imagined were crowding round her. Then she saw the Lion, screamed and  fled, and with her fled her class, who were mostly dumpy, prim little girls with fat legs.  Gwendolen hesitated.  
"You'll stay with us, sweetheart?" said Aslan.  
"Oh, may I? Thank you, thank you," said Gwendolen. Instantly she joined hands with two  of the Maenads, who whirled her round in a merry dance and helped her take off some of  the unnecessary and uncomfortable clothes that she was wearing.  
Wherever they went in the little town of Beruna it was the same. Most of the people fled,  a few joined them. When they left the town they were a larger and a merrier company.  
They swept on across the level fields on the north bank, or left bank, of the river. At  every farm animals came out to join them. Sad old donkeys who had never known joy  grew suddenly young again; chained dogs broke their chains; horses kicked their carts to  pieces and came trotting along with them - clop-clop - kicking up the mud and  whinnying.  
At a well in a yard they met a man who was beating a boy. The stick burst into flower in  the man's hand. He tried to drop it, but it stuck to his hand. His arm became a branch, his  body the trunk of a tree, his feet took root. The boy, who had been crying a moment  before, burst out laughing and joined them.  
At a little town half-way to Beaversdam, where two rivers met, they came to another  school, where a tiredlooking girl was teaching arithmetic to a number of boys who looked  very like pigs. She looked out of the window and saw the divine revellers singing up the  street and a stab of joy went through her heart. Aslan stopped right under the window and  looked up at her.  
"Oh, don't, don't," she said. "I'd love to. But I mustn't. I must stick to my work. And the  children would be frightened if they saw you."  
"Frightened?" said the most pig-like of the boys. "Who's she talking to out of the  window? Let's tell the inspector she talks to people out of the window when she ought to  be teaching us."  
"Let's go and see who it is," said another boy, and they all came crowding to the window.  But as soon as their mean little faces looked out, Bacchus gave a great cry of Euan, euoi- oi-oi-of and the boys all began howling with fright and trampling one another down to  get out of the door and jumping out of the windows. And it was said afterwards (whether  truly or not) that those particular little boys were never seen again, but that there were a  lot of very fine little pigs in that part of the country which had never been there before.  
"Now, Dear Heart," said Aslan to the Mistress, and she jumped down and joined them.  
 
 At Beaversdam they re-crossed the river and came east again along the southern bank.  They came to a little cottage where a child stood in the doorway crying. "Why are you  crying, my love?" asked Aslan. The child, who had never seen a picture of a lion, was not  afraid of him. "Auntie's very ill," she said. "She's going to die." Then Aslan went to go in  at the door of the cottage, but it was too small for him. So, when he had got his head  through, he pushed with his shoulders (Lucy and Susan fell off when he did this) and  lifted the whole house up and it fell backwards and apart. And there, still in her bed,  though the bed was now in the open air, lay a little old woman who looked as if she had  Dwarf blood in her. She was at death's door, but when she opened her eyes and saw the  bright, hairy head of the lion staring into her face, she did not scream or faint. She said,  "Oh, Aslan! I knew it was true. I've been waiting for this all my life. Have you come to  take me away?"  
"Yes, Dearest," said Aslan. "But not the long journey yet." And as he spoke, like the flush  creeping along the underside of a cloud at sunrise, the colour came back to her white face  and her eyes grew bright and she sat up and said, "Why, I do declare I feel that better. I  think I could take a little breakfast this morning."  
"Here you are, mother," said Bacchus, dipping a pitcher in the cottage well and handing it  to her. But what was in it now was not water but the richest wine, red as red-currant jelly,  smooth as oil, strong as beef, warming as tea, cool as dew.  
"Eh, you've done something to our well," said the old woman. "That makes a nice  change, that does." And she jumped out of bed.  
"Ride on me," said Aslan, and added to Susan and Lucy, "You two queens will have to  run now."  
"But we'd like that just as well," said Susan. And off they went again.  
And so at last, with leaping and dancing and singing, with music and laughter and roaring  and barking and neighing, they all came to the place where Miraz's army stood flinging  down their swords and holding up their hands, and Peter's army, still holding their  weapons and breathing hard, stood round them with stern and glad faces. And the first  thing that happened was that the old woman slipped off Aslan's back and ran across to  Caspian and they embraced one another; for she was his old nurse.  

CHAPTER FIFTEEN  
ASLAN MAKES A DOOR IN THE AIR  
AT the sight of Aslan the cheeks of the Telmarine soldiers became the colour of cold  gravy, their knees knocked together, and many fell on their faces. They had not believed    
 in lions and this made their fear greater. Even the Red Dwarfs, who knew that he came as  a friend, stood with open mouths and could not speak. Some of the Black Dwarfs, who  had been of Nikabrik's party, began to edge away. But all the Talking Beasts surged  round the Lion, with purrs and grunts and squeaks and whinneys of delight, fawning on  him with their tails, rubbing against him, touching him reverently with their noses and  going to and fro under his body and between his legs. If you have ever seen a little cat  loving a big dog whom it knows and trusts, you will have a pretty good picture of their  behaviour. Then Peter, leading Caspian, forced his way through the crowd of animals.  
"This is Caspian, Sir," he said. And Caspian knelt and kissed the Lion's paw.  
"Welcome, Prince," said Aslan. "Do you feel yourself sufficient to take up the Kingship  of Narnia?"  
"I - I don't think I do, Sir," said Caspian. "I'm only a kid."  
"Good," said Aslan. "If you had felt yourself sufficient, it would have been a proof that  you were not. Therefore, under us and under the High King, you shall be King of Narnia,  Lord of Cair Paravel, and Emperor of the Lone Islands. You and your heirs while your  race lasts. And your coronation - but what have we here?" For at that moment a curious  little procession was approaching - eleven Mice, six of whom carried between them  something on a litter made of branches, but the litter was no bigger than a large atlas. No  one has ever seen mice more woebegone than these. They were plastered with mud some  with blood too - and their ears were down and their whiskers drooped and their tails  dragged in the grass, and their leader piped on his slender pipe a melancholy tune. On the  litter lay what seemed little better than a damp heap of fur; all that was left of  Reepicheep. He was still breathing, but more dead than alive, gashed with innumerable  wounds, one paw crushed, and, where his tail had been, a bandaged stump.  
"Now, Lucy," said Aslan.  
Lucy had her diamond bottle out in a moment. Though only a drop was needed on each  of Reepicheep's wounds, the wounds were so many that there was a long and anxious  silence before she had finished and the Master Mouse sprang from the litter. His hand  went at once to his sword hilt, with the other he twirled his whiskers. He bowed.  
"Hail, Aslan!" came his shrill voice. "I have the honour -" But then he suddenly stopped.  
The fact was that he still had no tail - whether that Lucy had forgotten it or that her  cordial, though it could heal wounds, could not make things grow again. Reepicheep  became aware of his loss as he made his bow; perhaps it altered something in his balance.  He looked over his right shoulder. Failing to see his tail, he strained his neck further till  he had to turn his shoulders and his whole body followed. But by that time his hind- quarters had turned too and were out of sight. Then he strained his neck looking over his  shoulder again, with the same result. Only after he had turned completely round three  times did he realize the dreadful truth.    
"I am confounded," said Reepicheep to Aslan. "I am completely out of countenance. I  must crave your indulgence for appearing in this unseemly fashion."  
"It becomes you very well, Small One," said Aslan.  
"All the same," replied Reepicheep, "if anything could be done... Perhaps her Majesty?"  and here he bowed to Lucy.  
"But what do you want with a tail?" asked Aslan.  
"Sir," said the Mouse, "I can eat and sleep and die for my King without one. But a tail is  the honour and glory of a Mouse."  
"I have sometimes wondered, friend," said Aslan, "whether you do not think too much  about your honour."  
"Highest of all High Kings," said Reepicheep, "permit me to remind you that a very small  size has been bestowed on us Mice, and if we did not guard our dignity, some (who  weigh worth by inches) would allow themselves very unsuitable pleasantries at our  expense. That is why I have been at some pains to make it known that no one who does  not wish to feel this sword as near his heart as I can reach shall talk in my presence about  Traps or Toasted Cheese or Candles: no, Sir - not the tallest fool in Narnia!" Here he  glared very fiercely up at Wimbleweather, but the Giant, who was always a stage behind  everyone else, had not yet discovered what was being talked about down at his feet, and  so missed the point.  
"Why have your followers all drawn their swords, may I ask?" said Aslan.  
"May it please your High Majesty," said the second Mouse, whose name was Peepiceek,  "we are all waiting to cut off our own tails if our Chief must go without his. We will not  bear the shame of wearing an honour which is denied to the High Mouse."  
"Ah!" roared Aslan. "You have conquered me. You have great hearts. Not for the sake of  your dignity, Reepicheep, but for the love that is between you and your people, and still  more for the kindness your people showed me long ago when you ate away the cords that  bound me on the Stone Table (and it was then, though you have long forgotten it, that  you began to be Talking Mice), you shall have your tail again."  
Before Aslan had finished speaking the new tail was in its place. Then, at Aslan's  command, Peter bestowed the Knighthood of the Order of the Lion on Caspian, and  Caspian, as soon as he was knighted, himself bestowed it on Trufflehunter and Trumpkin  and Reepicheep, and made Doctor Cornelius his Lord Chancellor, and confirmed the  Bulgy Bear in his hereditary office of Marshal of the Lists. And there was great applause.  
 
 After this the Telmarine soldiers, firmly but without taunts or blows, were taken across  the ford and all put under lock and key in the town of Beruna and given beef and beer.  They made a great fuss about wading in the river, for they all hated and feared running  water just as much as they hated and feared woods and animals. But in the end the  nuisance was over: and then the nicest parts of that long day began.  
Lucy, sitting close to Aslan and divinely comfortable, wondered what the trees were  doing. At first she thought they were merely dancing; they were certainly going round  slowly in two circles, one from left to right and the other from right to left. Then she  noticed that they kept throwing something down in the centre of both circles. Sometimes  she thought they were cutting off long strands of their hair; at other times it looked as if  they were breaking off bits of their fingers - but, if so, they had plenty of fingers to spare  and it did not hurt them. But whatever they were throwing down, when it reached the  ground, it became brushwood or dry sticks. Then three or four of the Red Dwarfs came  forward with their tinder boxes and set light to the pile, which first crackled, and then  blazed, and finally roared as a woodland bonfire on midsummer night ought to do. And  everyone sat down in a wide circle round it.  
Then Bacchus and Silenus and the Maenads began a dance, far wilder than the dance of  the trees; not merely a dance for fun and beauty (though it was that too) but a magic  dance of plenty, and where their hands touched, and where their feet fell, the feast came  into existence sides of roasted meat that filled the grove with delicious smell, and  wheaten cakes and oaten cakes, honey and many-coloured sugars and cream as thick as  porridge and as smooth as still water, peaches, nectarines, pomegranates, pears, grapes,  strawberries, raspberries pyramids and cataracts of fruit. Then, in great wooden cups and  bowls and mazers, wreathed with ivy, came the wines; dark, thick ones like syrups of  mulberry juice, and clear red ones like red jellies liquefied, and yellow wines and green  wines and yellow-green and greenish-yellow.  
But for the tree people different fare was provided. When Lucy saw Clodsley Shovel and  his moles scuffling up the turf in various places (which Bacchus had pointed out to them)  and realized that the trees were going to eat earth it gave her rather a shudder. But when  she saw the earths that were actually brought to them she felt quite different. They began  with a rich brown loam that looked almost exactly like chocolate; so like chocolate, in  fact, that Edmund tried a piece of it, but he did not find it at all nice. When the rich loam  had taken the edge off their hunger, the trees turned to an earth of the kind you see in  Somerset, which is almost pink. They said it was lighter and sweeter. At the cheese stage  they had a chalky soil, and then went on to delicate confections of the finest gravels  powdered with choice silver sand. They drank very little wine, and it made the Hollies  very talkative: for the most part they quenched their thirst with deep draughts of mingled  dew and rain, flavoured with forest flowers and the airy taste of the thinnest clouds.  
Thus Aslan feasted the Narnians till long after the sunset had died away, and the stars had  come out; and the great fire, now hotter but less noisy, shone like a beacon in the dark  woods, and the frightened Telmarines saw it from far away and wondered what it might  mean. The best thing of all about this feast was that there was no breaking up or going    
 away, but as the talk grew quieter and slower, one after another would begin to nod and  finally drop off to sleep with feet towards the fire and good friends on either side, till at  last there was silence all round the circle, and the chattering of water over stone at the  Ford of Beruna could be heard once more. But all night Aslan and the Moon gazed upon  each other with joyful and unblinking eyes.  
Next day messengers (who were chiefly squirrels and birds) were sent all over the  country with a proclamation to the scattered Telmarines - including, of course, the  prisoners in Beruna. They were told that Caspian was now King and that Narnia would  henceforth belong to the Talking Beasts and the Dwarfs and Dryads and Fauns and other  creatures quite as much as to the men. Any who chose to stay under the new conditions  might do so; but for those who did not like the idea, Aslan would provide another home.  Anyone who wished to go there must come to Aslan and the Kings at the Ford of Beruna  by noon on the fifth day. You may imagine that this caused plenty of head-scratching  among the Telmarines. Some of them, chiefly the young ones, had, like Caspian, heard  stories of the Old Days and were delighted that they had come back. They were already  making friends with the creatures. These all decided to stay in Narnia. But most of the  older men, especially those who had been important under Miraz, were sulky and had no  wish to live in a country where they could not rule the roost. "Live here with a lot of  blooming performing animals! No fear," they said. "And ghosts too," some added with a  shudder. "That's what those there Dryads really are. It's not canny." They were also  suspicious. "I don't trust 'em," they said. "Not with that awful Lion and all. He won't keep  his claws off us long, you'll see." But then they were equally suspicious of his offer to  give them a new home. "Take us off to his den and eat us one by one most likely," they  muttered. And the more they talked to one another the sulkier and more suspicious they  became. But on the appointed day more than half of them turned up.  
At one end of the glade Aslan had caused to be set up two stakes of wood, higher than a  man's head and about three feet apart. A third, and lighter, piece of wood was bound  across them at the top, uniting them, so that the whole thing looked like a doorway from  nowhere into nowhere. In front of this stood Aslan himself with Peter on his right and  Caspian on his left. Grouped round them were Susan and Lucy, Trumpkin and  Trufflehunter, the Lord Cornelius, Glenstorm, Reepicheep, and others. The children and  the Dwarfs had made good use of the royal wardrobes in what had been the castle of  Miraz and was now the castle of Caspian, and what with silk and cloth of gold, with  snowy linen glancing through slashed sleeves, with silver mail shirts and jewelled sword- hilts, with gilt helmets and feathered bonnets, they were almost too bright to look at.  Even the beasts wore rich chains about their necks. Yet nobody's eyes were on them or  the children. The living and strokable gold of Aslan's mane outshone them all. The rest of  the Old Narnians stood down each side of the glade. At the far end stood the Telmarines.  The sun shone brightly and pennants fluttered in the light wind.  
"Men of Telmar," said Aslan, "you who seek a new land, hear my words. I will send you  all to your own country, which I know and you do not."  
 
 "We don't remember Telmar. We don't know where it is. We don't know what it is like,"  grumbled the Telmarines.  
"You came into Narnia out of Telmar," said Aslan. "But you came into Telmar from  another place. You do not belong to this world at all. You came hither, certain  generations ago, out of that same world to which the High King Peter belongs."  
At this, half the Telmarines began whimpering, "There you are. Told you so. He's going  to kill us all, send us right out of the world," and the other half began throwing out their  chests and slapping one another on the back and whispering, "There you are. Might have  guessed we didn't belong to this place with all its queer, nasty, unnatural creatures. We're  of royal blood, you'll see." And even Caspian and Cornelius and the children turned to  Aslan with looks of amazement on their faces.  
"Peace," said Aslan in the low voice which was nearest to his growl. The earth seemed to  shake a little and every living thing in the grove became still as stone.  
"You, Sir Caspian," said Aslan, "might have known that you could be no true King of  Narnia unless, like the Kings of old, you were a son of Adam and came from the world of  Adam's sons. And so you are. Many years ago in that world, in a deep sea of that world  which is called the South Sea, a shipload of pirates were driven by storm on an island.  And there they did as pirates would: killed the natives and took the native women for  wives, and made palm wine, and drank and were drunk, and lay in the shade of the palm  trees, and woke up and quarrelled, and sometimes killed one another. And in one of these  frays six were put to flight by the rest and fled with their women into the centre of the  island and up a mountain, and went, as they thought, into a cave to hide. But it was one of  the magical places of that world, one of the chinks or chasms between chat world and  this. There were many chinks or chasms between worlds in old times, but they have  grown rarer. This was one of the last: I do not say the last. And so they fell, or rose, or  blundered, or dropped right through, and found themselves in this world, in the Land of  Telmar which was then unpeopled. But why it was unpeopled is a long story: I will not  tell it now. And in Telmar their descendants lived and became a fierce and proud people;  and after many generations there was a famine in Telmar and they invaded Narnia, which  was then in some disorder (but that also would be a long story), and conquered it and  ruled it. Do you mark all this well, King Caspian?"  
"I do indeed, Sir," said Caspian. "I was wishing that I came of a more honourable  lineage."  
"You come of the Lord Adam and the Lady Eve," said Aslan. "And that is both honour  enough to erect the head of the poorest beggar, and shame enough to bow the shoulders  of the greatest emperor on earth. Be content."  
Caspian bowed.  
 
 "And now," said Aslan, "you men and women of Telmar, will you go back to that island  in the world of men from which your fathers first came? It is no bad place. The race of  those pirates who first found it has died out, and it is without inhabitants. There are good  wells of fresh water, and fruitful soil, and timber for building, and fish in the lagoons; and  the other men of that world have not yet discovered it. The chasm is open for your return;  but this I must warn you, that once you have gone through, it will close behind you for  ever. There will be no more commerce between the worlds by that door."  
There was silence for a moment. Then a burly, decent looking fellow among the  Telmarine soldiers pushed forward and said:  
"Well, I'll take the offer."  
"It is well chosen," said Aslan. "And because you have spoken first, strong magic is upon  you. Your future in that world shall be good. Come forth."  
The man, now a little pale, came forward. Aslan and his court drew aside, leaving him  free access to the empty doorway of the stakes.  
"Go through it, my son," said Aslan, bending towards him and touching the man's nose  with his own. As soon as the Lion's breath came about him, a new look came into the  man's eyes - startled, but not unhappy - as if he were trying to remember something. Then  he squared his shoulders and walked into the Door.  
Everyone's eyes were fixed on him. They saw the three pieces of wood, and through them  the trees and grass and sky of Narnia. They saw the man between the doorposts: then, in  one second, he had vanished utterly.  
From the other end of the glade the remaining Telmarines set up a wailing. "Ugh! What's  happened to him? Do you mean to murder us? We won't go that way." And then one of  the clever Telmarines said:  
"We don't see any other world through those sticks. If you want us to believe in it, why  doesn't one of you go? All your own friends are keeping well away from the sticks."  
Instantly Reepicheep stood forward and bowed. "If my example can be of any service,  Aslan," he said, "I will take eleven mice through that arch at your bidding without a  moment's delay."  
"Nay, little one," said Aslan, laying his velvety paw ever so lightly on Reepicheep's head.  "They would do dreadful things to you in that world. They would show you at fairs. It is  others who must lead."  
"Come on," said Peter suddenly to Edmund and Lucy. "Our time's up."  
"What do you mean?" said Edmund.    
"This way," said Susan, who seemed to know all about it. "Back into the trees. We've got  to change."  
"Change what?" asked Lucy.  
"Our clothes, of course," said Susan. "Nice fools we'd look on the platform of an English  station in these."  
"But our other things are at Caspian's castle," said Edmund.  
"No, they're not," said Peter, still leading the way into the thickest wood. "They're all  here. They were brought down in bundles this morning. It's all arranged."  
"Was that what Aslan was talking to you and Susan about this morning?" asked Lucy.  
"Yes - that and other things," said Peter, his face very solemn. "I can't tell it to you all.  There were things he wanted to say to Su and me because we're not coming back to  Narnia."  
"Never?" cried Edmund and Lucy in dismay.  
"Oh, you two are," answered Peter. "At least, from what he said, I'm pretty sure he means  you to get back some day. But not Su and me. He says we're getting too old."  
"Oh, Peter," said Lucy. "What awful bad luck. Can you bear it?"  
"Well, I think I can," said Peter. "It's all rather different from what I thought. You'll  understand when it comes to your last time. But, quick, here are our things."  
It was odd, and not very nice, to take off their royal clothes and to come back in their  school things (not very fresh now) into that great assembly. One or two of the nastier  Telmarines jeered. But the other creatures all cheered and rose up in honour of Peter the  High King, and Queen Susan of the Horn, and King Edmund, and Queen Lucy. There  were affectionate and (on Lucy's part) tearful farewells with all their old friends - animal  kisses, and hugs from Bulgy Bears, and hands wrung by Trumpkin, and a last tickly,  whiskerish embrace with Trufflehunter. And of course Caspian offered the Horn back to  Susan and of course Susan told him to keep it. And then, wonderfully and terribly, it was  farewell to Aslan himself, and Peter took his place with Susan's hands on his shoulders  and Edmund's on hers and Lucy's on his and the first of the Telmarine's on Lucy's, and so  in a long line they moved forward to the Door. After that came a moment which is hard  to describe, for the children seemed to be seeing three things at once. One was the mouth  of a cave opening into the glaring green and blue of an island in the Pacific, where all the  Telmarines would find themselves the moment they were through the Door. The second  was a glade in Narnia, the faces of Dwarfs and Beasts, the deep eyes of Aslan, and the  white patches on the Badger's cheeks. But the third (which rapidly swallowed up the    
 other two) was the grey, gravelly surface of a platform in a country station, and a seat  with luggage round it, where they were all sitting as if they had never moved from it - a  little flat and dreary for a moment after all they; had been through, but also,  unexpectedly, nice in its own way, what with the familiar railway smell and the English  sky and the summer term before them.  
"Well!" said Peter. "We have had a time."  
"Bother!" said Edmund. "I've left my new torch in Narnia."   
