 THE SILVER CHAIR  
By C.S. Lewis  
CHAPTER ONE  
  
BEHIND THE GYM  
IT was a dull autumn day and Jill Pole was crying behind the gym.  
She was crying because they had been bullying her. This is not going to be a school story,  so I shall say as little as possible about Jill's school, which is not a pleasant subject. It was  "Co-educational," a school for both boys and girls, what used to be called a "mixed"  school; some said it was not nearly so mixed as the minds of the people who ran it. These  people had the idea that boys and girls should be allowed to do what they liked. And  unfortunately what ten or fifteen of the biggest boys and girls liked best was bullying the  others. All sorts of things, horrid things, went on which at an ordinary school would have  been found out and stopped in half a term; but at this school they weren't. Or even if they  were, the people who did them were not expelled or punished. The Head said they were  interesting psychological cases and sent for them and talked to them for hours. And if you  knew the right sort of things to say to the Head, the main result was that you became  rather a favourite than otherwise.  
That was why Jill Pole was crying on that dull autumn day on the damp little path which  runs between the back of the gym and the shrubbery. And she hadn't nearly finished her  cry when a boy came round the corner of the gym whistling, with his hands in his  pockets. He nearly ran into her.  
"Can't you look where you're going?" said Jill Pole.  
"All right," said the boy, "you needn't start -" and then he noticed her face. "I say, Pole,"  he said, "what's up?"  
Jill only made faces; the sort you make when you're trying to say something but find that  if you speak you'll start crying again.  
"It's Them, I suppose - as usual," said the boy grimly, digging his hands farther into his  pockets.  
Jill nodded. There was no need for her to say anything, even if she could have said it.  They both knew.  
 
 "Now, look here," said the boy, "there's no good us all -"  
He meant well, but he did talk rather like someone beginning a lecture. Jill suddenly flew  into a temper (which is quite a likely thing to happen if you have been interrupted in a  cry).  
"Oh, go away and mind your own business," she said. "Nobody asked you to come  barging in, did they? And you're a nice person to start telling us what we all ought to do,  aren't you? I suppose you mean we ought to spend all our time sucking up to Them, and  currying favour, and dancing attendance on Them like you do."  
"Oh, Lor!" said the boy, sitting down on the grassy bank at the edge of the shrubbery and  very quickly getting up again because the grass was soaking wet. His name unfortunately  was Eustace Scrubb, but he wasn't a bad sort.  
"Pole!" he said. "Is that fair? Have I been doing anything of the sort this term? Didn't I  stand up to Carter about the rabbit? And didn't I keep the secret about Spivvins - under  torture too? And didn't I -"  
"I d-don't know and I don't care," sobbed Jill.  
Scrubb saw that she wasn't quite herself yet and very sensibly offered her a peppermint.  He had one too. Presently Jill began to see things in a clearer light.  
"I'm sorry, Scrubb," she said presently. "I wasn't fair. You have done all that - this term."  
"Then wash out last term if you can," said Eustace. "I was a different chap then. I was -  gosh! what a little tick I was."  
"Well, honestly, you were," said Jill.  
"You think there has been a change, then?" said Eustace.  
"It's not only me," said Jill. "Everyone's been saying so. They've noticed it. Eleanor  Blakiston heard Adela Pennyfather talking about it in our changing room yesterday. She  said, `Someone's got hold of that Scrubb kid. He's quite unmanageable this term. We  shall have to attend to him next.'"  
Eustace gave a shudder. Everyone at Experiment House knew what it was like being  "attended to" by Them.  
Both children were quiet for a moment. The drops dripped off the laurel leaves.  
"Why were you so different last term?" said Jill presently.  
"A lot of queer things happened to me in the hols," said Eustace mysteriously.  
 
   
"What sort of things?" asked Jill.  
Eustace didn't say anything for quite a long time. Then he said:  
"Look here, Pole, you and I hate this place about as much as anybody can hate anything,  don't we?"  
"I know I do," said Jill.  
"Then I really think I can trust you."  
"Dam' good of you," said Jill.  
"Yes, but this is a really terrific secret. Pole, I say, are you good at believing things? I  mean things that everyone here would laugh at?"  
"I've never had the chance," said Jill, "but I think I would be."  
"Could you believe me if I said I'd been right out of the world - outside this world - last  hols?"  
"I wouldn't know what you meant."  
"Well, don't let's bother about that then. Supposing I told you I'd been in a place where  animals can talk and where there are - er - enchantments and dragons - and well, all the  sorts of things you have in fairy-tales." Scrubb felt terribly awkward as he said this and  got red in the face.  
"How did you get there?" said Jill. She also felt curiously shy.  
"The only way you can - by Magic," said Eustace almost in a whisper. "I was with two  cousins of mine. We were just - whisked away. They'd been there before."  
Now that they were talking in whispers Jill somehow felt it easier to believe. Then  suddenly a horrible suspicion came over her and she said (so fiercely that for the moment  she looked like a tigress):  
"If I find you've been pulling my leg I'll never speak to you again; never, never, never."  
"I'm not," said Eustace. "I swear I'm not. I swear by everything."  
(When I was at school one would have said, "I swear by the Bible." But Bibles were not  encouraged at Experiment House.)  
"All right," said Jill, "I'll believe you."  
 
   
"And tell nobody?"  
"What do you take me for?"  
They were very excited as they said this. But when they had said it and Jill looked round  and saw the dull autumn sky and heard the drip off the leaves and thought of all the  hopelessness of Experiment House (it was a thirteen-week term and there were still  eleven weeks to come) she said:  
"But after all, what's the good? We're not there: we're here. And we jolly well can't get  there. Or can we?"  
"That's what I've been wondering," said Eustace. "When we came back from That Place,  Someone said that the two Pevensie kids (that's my two cousins) could never go there  again. It was their third time, you see. I suppose they've had their share. But he never said  I couldn't. Surely he would have said so, unless he meant that I was to get back? And I  can't help wondering, can we - could we -?"  
"Do you mean, do something to make it happen?"  
Eustace nodded.  
"You mean we might draw a circle on the ground - and write in queer letters in it - and  stand inside it - and recite charms and spells?"  
"Well," said Eustace after he had thought hard for a bit. "I believe that was the sort of  thing I was thinking of, though I never did it. But now that it comes to the point, I've an  idea that all those circles and things are rather rot. I don't think he'd like them. It would  look as if we thought we could make him do things. But really, we can only ask him."  
"Who is this person you keep on talking about?"  
"They call him Aslan in That Place," said Eustace.  
"What a curious name!"  
"Not half so curious as himself," said Eustace solemnly. "But let's get on. It can't do any  harm, just asking. Let's stand side by side, like this. And we'll hold out our arms in front  of us with the palms down: like they did in Ramandu's island -"  
"Whose island?"  
"I'll tell you about that another time. And he might like us to face the east. Let's see,  where is the east?"  
 
 "I don't know," said Jill.  
"It's an extraordinary thing about girls that they never know the points of the compass,"  said Eustace.  
"You don't know either," said Jill indignantly.  
"Yes I do, if only you didn't keep on interrupting. I've got it now. That's the east, facing  up into the laurels. Now, will you say the words after me?''  
"What words?" asked Jill.  
"The words I'm going to say, of course," answered Eustace. "Now -"  
And he began, "Aslan, Aslan, Aslan!"  
"Aslan, Aslan, Aslan," repeated Jill.  
"Please let us two go into -"  
At that moment a voice from the other side of the gym was heard shouting out, "Pole?  Yes. I know where she is. She's blubbing behind the gym. Shall I fetch her out?"  
Jill and Eustace gave one glance at each other, dived under the laurels, and began  scrambling up the steep, earthy slope of the shrubbery at a speed which did them great  credit. (Owing to the curious methods of teaching at Experiment House, one did not learn  much French or Maths or Latin or things of that sort; but one did learn a lot about getting  away quickly and quietly when They were looking for one.)  
After about a minute's scramble they stopped to listen, and knew by the noises they heard  that they were being followed.  
"If only the door was open again!" said Scrubb as they went on, and Jill nodded. For at  the top of the shrubbery was a high stone wall and in that wall a door by which you could  get out on to open moor. This door was nearly always locked. But there had been times  when people had found it open; or perhaps there had been only one time. But you may  imagine how the memory of even one time kept people hoping, and trying the door; for if  it should happen to be unlocked it would be a splendid way of getting outside the school  grounds without being seen.  
Jill and Eustace, now both very hot and very grubby from going along bent almost double  under the laurels, panted up to the wall. And there was the door, shut as usual.  
"It's sure to be no good," said Eustace with his hand on the handle; and then, "O-o-oh. By  Gum!!" For the handle turned and the door opened.  
 
 A moment before, both of them had meant to get through that doorway in double quick  time, if by any chance the door was not locked. But when the door actually opened, they  both stood stock still. For what they saw was quite different from what they had  expected.  
They had expected to see the grey, heathery slope of the moor going up and up to join the  dull autumn sky. Instead, a blaze of sunshine met them. It poured through the doorway as  the light of a June day pours into a garage when you open the door. It made the drops of  water on the grass glitter like beads and showed up the dirtiness of Jill's tear-stained face.  And the sunlight was coming from what certainly did look like a different world - what  they could see of it. They saw smooth turf, smoother and brighter than Jill had ever seen  before, and blue sky, and, darting to and fro, things so bright that they might have been  jewels or huge butterflies.  
Although she had been longing for something like this, Jill felt frightened. She looked at  Scrubb's face and saw that he was frightened too.  
"Come on, Pole," he said in a breathless voice.  
"Can we get back? Is it safe?" asked Jill.  
At that moment a voice shouted from behind, a mean, spiteful little voice. "Now then,  Pole," it squeaked. "Everyone knows you're there. Down you come." It was the voice of  Edith Jackle, not one of Them herself but one of their hangers-on and tale-bearers.
"Quick!" said Scrubb. "Here. Hold hands. We mustn't get separated." And before she  quite knew what was happening, he had grabbed her hand and pulled her through the  door, out of the school grounds, out of England, out of our whole world into That Place.  
The sound of Edith Jackle's voice stopped as suddenly as the voice on the radio when it is  switched off. Instantly there was a quite different sound all about them. It came from  those bright things overhead, which now turned out to be birds. They were making a  riotous noise, but it was much more like music - rather advanced music which you don't  quite take in at the first hearing - than birds' songs ever are in our world. Yet, in spite of  the singing, there was a sort of background of immense silence. That silence, combined  with the freshness of the air, made Jill think they must be on the top of a very high  mountain.  
Scrubb still had her by the hand and they were walking forward, staring about them on  every side. Jill saw that huge trees, rather like cedars but bigger, grew in every direction.  But as they did not grow close together, and as there was no undergrowth, this did not  prevent one from seeing a long way into the forest to left and right. And as far as Jill's  eye could reach, it was all the same - level turf, darting birds with yellow, or dragonfly  blue, or rainbow plumage, blue shadows, and emptiness. There was not a breath of wind  in that cool, bright air. It was a very lonely forest.  
 
   
Right ahead there were no trees: only blue sky. They went straight on without speaking  till suddenly Jill heard Scrubb say, "Look out!" and felt herself jerked back. They were at  the very edge of a cliff.  
Jill was one of those lucky people who have a good head for heights. She didn't mind in  the least standing on the edge of a precipice. She was rather annoyed with Scrubb for  pulling her back - "just as if I was a kid", she said and she wrenched her hand out of his.  When she saw how very white he had turned, she despised him.  
"What's the matter?" she said. And to show that she was not afraid, she stood very near  the edge indeed; in fact, a good deal nearer than even she liked. Then she looked down.  
She now realized that Scrubb had some excuse for looking white, for no cliff in our world  is to be compared with this. Imagine yourself at the top of the very highest cliff you  know. And imagine yourself looking down to the very bottom. And then imagine that the  precipice goes on below that, as far again, ten times as far, twenty times as far. And when  you've looked down all that distance imagine little white things that might, at first glance,  be mistaken for sheep, but presently you realize that they are clouds - not little wreaths of  mist but the enormous white, puffy clouds which are themselves as big as most  mountains. And at last, in between those clouds, you get your first glimpse of the real  bottom, so far away that you can't make out whether it's field or wood, or land or water:  farther below those clouds than you are above them.  
Jill stared at it. Then she thought that perhaps, after all, she would step back afoot or so  from the edge; but she didn't like to for fear of what Scrubb would think. Then she  suddenly decided that she didn't care what he thought, and that she would jolly well get  away from that horrible edge and never laugh at anyone for not liking heights again. But  when she tried to move, she found she couldn't. Her legs seemed to have turned into  putty. Everything was swimming before her eyes.  
"What are you doing, Pole? Come back-blithering little idiot!" shouted Scrubb. But his  voice seemed to he coming from a long way off. She felt him grabbing at her. But by now  she had no control over her own arms and legs. There was a moment's struggling on the  cliff edge. Jill was too frightened and dizzy to know quite what she was doing, but two  things she remembered as long as she lived (they often came back to her in dreams). One  was that she had wrenched herself free of Scrubb's clutches; the other was that, at the  same moment, Scrubb himself, with a terrified scream, had lost his balance and gone  hurtling to the depths.  
Fortunately, she was given no time to think over what she had done. Some huge, brightly  coloured animal had rushed to the edge of the cliff. It was lying down, leaning over, and  (this was the odd thing) blowing. Not roaring or snorting, but just blowing from its wide- opened mouth; blowing out as steadily as a vacuum cleaner sucks in. Jill was lying so  close to the creature that she could feel the breath vibrating steadily through its body. She  was lying still because she couldn't get up. She was nearly fainting: indeed, she wished  
 
 she could really faint, but faints don't come for the asking. At last she saw, far away  below her, a tiny black speck floating away from the cliff and slightly upwards. As it  rose, it also got farther away. By the time it was nearly on a level with the cliff-top it was  so far off that she lost sight of it. It was obviously moving away from them at a great  speed. Jill couldn't help thinking that the creature at her side was blowing it away.  
So she turned and looked at the creature. It was a lion.  
  
CHAPTER TWO  
JILL IS GIVEN A TASK  
  
WITHOUT a glance at Jill the lion rose to its feet and gave one last blow. Then, as if  satisfied with its work, it turned and stalked slowly away, back into the forest.  
"It must be a dream, it must, it must," said Jill to herself. "I'll wake up in a moment." But  it wasn't, and she didn't.  
"I do wish we'd never come to this dreadful place," said Jill. "I don't believe Scrubb knew  any more about it than I do. Or if he did, he had no business to bring me here without  warning me what it was like. It's not my fault he fell over that cliff. If he'd left me alone  we should both be all right." Then she remembered again the scream that Scrubb had  given when he fell, and burst into tears.  
Crying is all right in its way while it lasts. But you have to stop sooner or later, and then  you still have to decide what to do. When Jill stopped, she found she was dreadfully  thirsty. She had been lying face downward, and now she sat up. The birds had ceased  singing and there was perfect silence except for one small, persistent sound, which  seemed to come from a good distance away. She listened carefully, and felt almost sure it  was the sound of running water.  
Jill got up and looked round her very carefully. There was no sign of the lion; but there  were so many trees about that it might easily be quite close without her seeing it. For all  she knew, there might be several lions. But her thirst was very bad now, and she plucked  up her courage to go and look for that running water. She went on tiptoes, stealing  cautiously from tree to tree, and stopping to peer round her at every step.  
The wood was so still that it was not difficult to decide where the sound was coming  from. It grew clearer every moment and, sooner than she expected, she came to an open  glade and saw the stream, bright as glass, running across the turf a stone's throw away  from her. But although the sight of the water made her feel ten times thirstier than before,  she didn't rush forward and drink. She stood as still as if she had been turned into stone,  
 
 with her mouth wide open. And she had a very good reason; just on this side of the  stream lay the lion.  
It lay with its head raised and its two fore-paws out in front of it, like the lions in  Trafalgar Square. She knew at once that it had seen her, for its eyes looked straight into  hers for a moment and then turned away - as if it knew her quite well and didn't think  much of her.  
"If I run away, it'll be after me in a moment," thought Jill. "And if I go on, I shall run  straight into its mouth." Anyway, she couldn't have moved if she had tried, and she  couldn't take her eyes off it. How long this lasted, she could not be sure; it seemed like  hours. And the thirst became so bad that she almost felt she would not mind being eaten  by the lion if only she could be sure of getting a mouthful of water first.  
"If you're thirsty, you may drink."  
They were the first words she had heard since Scrubb had spoken to her on the edge of  the cliff. For a second she stared here and there, wondering who had spoken. Then the  voice said again, "If you are thirsty, come and drink," and of course she remembered  what Scrubb had said about animals talking in that other world, and realized that it was  the lion speaking. Anyway, she had seen its lips move this time, and the voice was not  like a man's. It was deeper, wilder, and stronger; a sort of heavy, golden voice. It did not  make her any less frightened than she had been before, but it made her frightened in  rather a different way.  
"Are you not thirsty?" said the Lion.  
"I'm dying of thirst," said Jill.  
"Then drink," said the Lion.  
"May I - could I - would you mind going away while I do?" said Jill.  
The Lion answered this only by a look and a very low growl. And as Jill gazed at its  motionless bulk, she realized that she might as well have asked the whole mountain to  move aside for her convenience.  
The delicious rippling noise of the stream was driving her nearly frantic.  
"Will you promise not to - do anything to me, if I do come?" said Jill.  
"I make no promise," said the Lion.  
Jill was so thirsty now that, without noticing it, she had come a step nearer.  
"Do you eat girls?" she said.  
 
   
"I have swallowed up girls and boys, women and men, kings and emperors, cities and  realms," said the Lion. It didn't say this as if it were boasting, nor as if it were sorry, nor  as if it were angry. It just said it.  
"I daren't come and drink," said Jill.  
"Then you will die of thirst," said the Lion.  
"Oh dear!" said Jill, coming another step nearer. "I suppose I must go and look for  another stream then."  
"There is no other stream," said the Lion.  
It never occurred to Jill to disbelieve the Lion - no one who had seen his stern face could  do that - and her mind suddenly made itself up. It was the worst thing she had ever had to  do, but she went forward to the stream, knelt down, and began scooping up water in her  hand. It was the coldest, most refreshing water she had ever tasted. You didn't need to  drink much of it, for it quenched your thirst at once. Before she tasted it she had been  intending to make a dash away from the Lion the moment she had finished. Now, she  realized that this would be on the whole the most dangerous thing of all. She got up and  stood there with her lips still wet from drinking.  
"Come here," said the Lion. And she had to. She was almost between its front paws now,  looking straight into its face. But she couldn't stand that for long; she dropped her eyes.  
"Human Child," said the Lion. "Where is the Boy?"  
"He fell over the cliff," said Jill, and added, "Sir." She didn't know what else to call him,  and it sounded cheek to call him nothing.  
"How did he come to do that, Human Child?"  
"He was trying to stop me from falling, Sir."  
"Why were you so near the edge, Human Child?"  
"I was showing off, Sir."  
"That is a very good answer, Human Child. Do so no more. And now" (here for the first  time the Lion's face became a little less stern) "the boy is safe. I have blown him to  Narnia. But your task will be the harder because of what you have done."  
"Please, what task, Sir?" said Jill.  
"The task for which I called you and him here out of your own world."  
 
   
This puzzled Jill very much. "It's mistaking me for someone else," she thought. She didn't  dare to tell the Lion this, though she felt things would get into a dreadful muddle unless  she did.  
"Speak your thought, Human Child," said the Lion.  
"I was wondering - I mean - could there be some mistake? Because nobody called me and  Scrubb, you know. It was we who asked to come here. Scrubb said we were to call to - to  Somebody - it was a name I wouldn't know - and perhaps the Somebody would let us in.  And we did, and then we found the door open.'  
"You would not have called to me unless I had been calling to you," said the Lion.  
"Then you are Somebody, Sir?" said Jill.  
"I am. And now hear your task. Far from here in the land of Narnia there lives an aged  king who is sad because he has no prince of his blood to be king after him. He has no heir  because his only son was stolen from him many years ago, and no one in Narnia knows  where that prince went or whether he is still alive. But he is. I lay on you this command,  that you seek this lost prince until either you have found him and brought him to his  father's house, or else died in the attempt, or else gone back into your own world."  
"How, please?" said Jill.  
"I will tell you, Child," said the Lion. "These are the signs by which I will guide you in  your quest. First; as soon as the Boy Eustace sets foot in Narnia, he will meet an old and  dear friend. He must greet that friend at once; if he does, you will both have good help.  Second; you must journey out of Narnia to the north till you come to the ruined city of  the ancient giants. Third; you shall find a writing on a stone in that ruined city, and you  must do what the writing tells you. Fourth; you will know the lost prince (if you find him)  by this, that he will be the first person you have met in your travels who will ask you to  do something in my name, in the name of Aslan."  
As the Lion seemed to have finished, Jill thought she should say something. So she said,  "Thank you very much. I see."  
"Child," said Aslan, in a gentler voice than he had yet used, "perhaps you do not see quite  as well as you think. But the first step is to remember. Repeat to me, in order, the four  signs."  
Jill tried, and didn't get them quite right. So the Lion corrected her, and made her repeat  them again and again till she could say them perfectly. He was very patient over this, so  that, when it was done, Jill plucked up courage to ask:  
"Please, how am I to get to Narnia?"  
 
   
"On my breath," said the Lion. "I will blow you into the west of the world as I blew  Eustace."  
"Shall I catch him in time to tell him the first sign? But I suppose it won't matter. If he  sees an old friend, he's sure to go and speak to him, isn't he?"  
"You will have no time to spare," said the Lion. "That is why I must send you at once.  Come. Walk before me to the edge of the cliff."  
Jill remembered very well that if there was no time to spare, that was her own fault. "If I  hadn't made such a fool of myself, Scrubb and I would have been going together. And  he'd have heard all the instructions as well as me," she thought. So she did as she was  told. It was very alarming walking back to the edge of the cliff, especially as the Lion did  not walk with her but behind her - making no noise on his soft paws.  
But long before she had got anywhere near the edge, the voice behind her said, "Stand  still. In a moment I will blow. But, first, remember, remember, remember the signs. Say  them to yourself when you wake in the morning and when you lie down at night, and  when you wake in the middle of the night. And whatever strange things may happen to  you, let nothing turn your mind from following the signs. And secondly, I give you a  warning. Here on the mountain I have spoken to you clearly: I will not often do so down  in Narnia. Here on the mountain, the air is clear and your mind is clear; as you drop down  into Narnia, the air will thicken. Take great care that it does not confuse your mind. And  the signs which you have learned here will not look at all as you expect them to look,  when you meet them there. That is why it is so important to know them by heart and pay  no attention to appearances. Remember the signs and believe the signs. Nothing else  matters. And now, daughter of Eve, farewell -"  
The voice had been growing softer towards the end of this speech and now it faded away  altogether. Jill looked behind her. To her astonishment she saw the cliff already more  than a hundred yards behind her, and the Lion himself a speck of bright gold on the edge  of it. She had been setting her teeth and clenching her fists for a terrible blast of lion's  breath; but the breath had really been so gentle that she had not even noticed the moment  at which she left the earth. And now, there was nothing but air for thousands upon  thousands of feet below her.  
She felt frightened only for a second. For one thing, the world beneath her was so very  far away that it seemed to have nothing to do with her. For another, floating on the breath  of the Lion was so extremely comfortable. She found she could lie on her back or on her  face and twist any way she pleased, just as you can in water (if you've learned to float  really well). And because she was moving at the same pace as the breath, there was no  wind, and the air seemed beautifully warm. It was not in the least like being in an  aeroplane, because there was no noise and no vibration. If Jill had ever been in a balloon  she might have thought it more like that; only better.  
 
 When she looked back now she could take in for the first time the real size of the  mountain she was leaving. She wondered why a mountain so huge as that was not  covered with snow and ice - "but I suppose all that sort of thing is different in this world,"  thought Jill. Then she looked below her; but she was so high that she couldn't make out  whether she was floating over land or sea, nor what speed she was going at.  
"By Jove! The signs!" said Jill suddenly. "I'd better repeat them." She was in a panic for a  second or two, but she found she could still say them all correctly. "So that's all right,"  she said, and lay back on the air as if it was a sofa, with a sigh of contentment.  
"Well, I do declare," said Jill to herself some hours later, "I've been asleep. Fancy  sleeping on air. I wonder if anyone's done it before. I don't suppose they have. Oh bother  - Scrubb probably has! On this same journey, a little bit before me. Let's see what it looks  like down below."  
What it looked like was an enormous, very dark blue plain. There were no hills to be  seen; but there were biggish white things moving slowly across it. "Those must be  clouds," she thought. "But far bigger than the ones we saw from the cliff. I suppose  they're bigger because they're nearer. I must be getting lower. Bother this sun."  
The sun which had been high overhead when she began her journey was now getting into  her eyes. This meant that it was getting lower, ahead of her. Scrubb was quite right in  saying that Jill (I don't know about girls in general) didn't think much about points of the  compass. Otherwise she would have known, when the sun began getting in her eyes, that  she was travelling pretty nearly due west.  
Staring at the blue plain below her, she presently noticed that there were little dots of  brighter, paler colour in it here and there. "It's the sea!" thought Jill. "I do believe those  are islands." And so they were. She might have felt rather jealous if she had known that  some of them were islands which Scrubb had seen from a ship's deck and even landed on;  but she didn't know this. Then, later on, she began to see that there were little wrinkles on  the blue flatness: little wrinkles which must be quite big ocean waves if you were down  among them. And now, all along the horizon there was a thick dark line which grew  thicker and darker so quickly that you could see it growing. That was the first sign she  had had of the great speed at which she was travelling. And she knew that the thickening  line must be land.  
Suddenly from her left (for the wind was in the south) a great white cloud came rushing  towards her, this time on the same level as herself. And before she knew where she was,  she had shot right into the middle of its cold, wet fogginess. That took her breath away,  but she was in it only for a moment. She came out blinking in the sunlight and found her  clothes wet. (She had on a blazer and sweater and shorts and stockings and pretty thick  shoes; it had been a muddy sort of day in England.) She came out lower than she had  gone in; and as soon as she did so she noticed something which, I suppose, she ought to  have been expecting, but which came as a surprise and a shock. It was Noises. Up till  then she had travelled in total silence. Now, for the first time, she heard the noise of  
 
 waves and the crying of seagulls. And now, too, she smelled the smell of the sea. There  was no mistake about her speed now. She saw two waves meet with a smack and a spout  of foam go up between them; but she had hardly seen it before it was a hundred yards  behind her. The land was getting nearer at a great pace. She could see mountains far  inland, and other nearer mountains on her left. She could see bays and headlands, woods  and fields, stretches of sandy beach. The sound of waves breaking on the shore was  growing louder every second and drowning the other sea noises.  
Suddenly the land opened right ahead of her. She was coming to the mouth of a river. She  was very low now, only a few feet above the water. A wave-top came against her toe and  a great splash of foam spurted up, drenching her nearly to the waist. Now she was losing  speed. Instead of being carried up the river she was gliding in to the river bank on her  left. There were so many things to notice that she could hardly take them all in; a smooth,  green lawn, a ship so brightly coloured that it looked like an enormous piece of jewellery,  towers and battlements, banners fluttering in the air, a crowd, gay clothes, armour, gold,  swords, a sound of music. But this was all jumbled. The first thing that she knew clearly  was that she had alighted and was standing under a thicket of trees close by the river side,  and there, only a few feet away from her, was Scrubb.  
The first thing she thought was how very grubby and untidy and generally unimpressive  he looked. And the second was "How wet I am!"  
  
  
CHAPTER THREE  
THE SAILING OF THE KING  
  
WHAT made Scrubb look so dingy (and Jill too, if she could only have seen herself) was  the splendour of their surroundings. I had better describe them at once.  
Through a cleft in those mountains which Jill had seen far inland as she approached the  land, the sunset light was pouring over a level lawn. On the far side of the lawn, its  weather-vanes glittering in the light, rose a many-towered and many-turreted castle; the  most beautiful castle Jill had ever seen. On the near side was a quay of white marble and,  moored to this, the ship: a tall ship with high forecastle and high poop, gilded and  crimson, with a great flag at the mast-head, and many banners waving from the decks,  and a row of shields, bright as silver, along the bulwarks. The gang-plank was laid to her,  and at the foot of it, just ready to go on board, stood an old, old man. He wore a rich  mantle of scarlet which opened in front to show his silver mail shirt. There was a thin  circlet of gold on his head. His beard, white as wool, fell nearly to his waist. He stood  straight enough, leaning one hand on the shoulder of a richly dressed lord who seemed  younger than himself: but you could see he was very old and frail. He looked as if a puff  of wind could blow him away, and his eyes were watery.  
 
   
Immediately in front of the King - who had turned round to speak to his people before  going on board the ship - there was a little chair on wheels, and, harnessed to it, a little  donkey: not much bigger than a big retriever. In this chair sat a fat little dwarf. He was as  richly dressed as the King, but because of his fatness and because he was sitting hunched  up among cushions, the effect was quite different: it made him look like a shapeless little  bundle of fur and silk and velvet. He was as old as the King, but more hale and hearty,  with very keen eyes. His bare head, which was bald and extremely large, shone like a  gigantic billiard ball in the sunset light.  
Farther back, in a half-circle, stood what Jill at once knew to be the courtiers. They were  well worth looking at for their clothes and armour alone. As far as that went, they looked  more like a flower-bed than a crowd. But what really made Jill open her eyes and mouth  as wide as they would go, was the people themselves. If "people" was the right word. For  only about one in every five was human. The rest were things you never see in our world.  Fauns, satyrs, centaurs: Jill could give a name to these, for she had seen pictures of them.  Dwarfs too. And there were a lot of animals she knew as well; bears, badgers, moles,  leopards, mice, and various birds. But then they were so very different from the animals  which one called by the same names in England. Some of them were much bigger - the  mice, for instance, stood on their hind legs and were over two feet high. But quite apart  from that, they all looked different. You could see by the expression in their faces that  they could talk and think just as well as you could.  
"Golly!" thought Jill. "So it's true after all." But next moment she added, "I wonder are  they friendly?" For she had just noticed, on the outskirts of the crowd, one or two giants  and some people whom she couldn't give a name to at all.  
At that moment Aslan and the signs rushed back into her mind. She had forgotten all  about them for the last half-hour.  
"Scrubb!" she whispered, grabbing his arm. "Scrubb, quick! Do you see anyone you  know?"  
"So you've turned up again, have you?" said Scrubb disagreeably (for which he had some  reason). "Well, keep quiet, can't you? I want to listen."  
"Don't be a fool," said Jill. "There isn't a moment to lose. Don't you see some old friend  here? Because you've got to go and speak to him at once."  
"What are you talking about?" said Scrubb.  
"It's Aslan - the Lion - says you've got to," said Jill despairingly. "I've seen him."  
"Oh, you have, have you? What did he say?"  
 
 "He said the very first person you saw in Narnia would be an old friend, and you'd got to  speak to him at once."  
"Well, there's nobody here I've ever seen in my life before; and anyway, I don't know  whether this is Narnia."  
"Thought you said you'd been here before," said Jill.  
"Well, you thought wrong then."  
"Well, I like that! You told me -"  
"For heaven's sake dry up and let's hear what they're saying."  
The King was speaking to the Dwarf, but Jill couldn't hear what he said. And, as far as  she could make out, the Dwarf made no answer, though he nodded and wagged his head a  great deal. Then the King raised his voice and addressed the whole court: but his voice  was so old and cracked that she could understand very little of his speech - especially  since it was all about people and places she had never heard of. When the speech was  over, the King stooped down and kissed the Dwarf on both cheeks, straightened himself,  raised his right hand as if in blessing, and went, slowly and with feeble steps, up the  gangway and on board the ship. The courtiers appeared to be greatly moved by his  departure. Handkerchiefs were got out, sounds of sobbing were heard in every direction.  The gangway was cast off, trumpets sounded from the poop, and the ship moved away  from the quay. (It was being towed by a rowing-boat, but Jill didn't see that.)  
"Now -" said Scrubb, but he didn't get any farther, because at that moment a large white  object - Jill thought for a second that it was a kite - came gliding through the air and  alighted at his feet. It was a white owl, but so big that it stood as high as a good-sized  dwarf.  
It blinked and peered as if it were short-sighted, and put its head a little on one side, and  said in a soft, hooting kind of voice:  
"Tu-whoo, tu-whoo! Who are you two?"  
"My name's Scrubb, and this is Pole," said Eustace. "Would you mind telling us where  we are?"  
"In the land of Narnia, at the King's castle of Cair Paravel."  
"Is that the King who's just taken ship?"  
"Too true, too true," said the Owl sadly, shaking its big head. "But who are you? There's  something magic about you two. I saw you arrive: you flew. Everyone else was so busy  seeing the King off that nobody knew. Except me. I happened to notice you, you flew."  
 
   
"We were sent here by Aslan," said Eustace in a low voice.  
"Tu-whoo, tu-whoo!" said the Owl, ruffling out its feathers. "This is almost too much for  me, so early in the evening. I'm not quite myself till the sun's down."  
"And we've been sent to find the lost Prince," said Jill, who had been anxiously waiting to  get into the conversation.  
"It's the first I've heard about it," said Eustace. "What prince?"  
"You had better come and speak to the Lord Regent at once," it said. "That's him, over  there in the donkey carriage; Trumpkin the Dwarf." The bird turned and began leading  the way, muttering to itself, "Whoo! Tu-whoo! What a to-do! I can't think clearly yet. It's  too early."  
"What is the King's name?" asked Eustace.  
"Caspian the Tenth," said the Owl. And Jill wondered why Scrubb had suddenly pulled  up short in his walk and turned an extraordinary colour. She thought she had never seen  him look so sick about anything. But before she had time to ask any questions they had  reached the dwarf, who was just gathering up the reins of his donkey and preparing to  drive back to the castle. The crowd of courtiers had broken up and were going in the  same direction, by ones and twos and little knots, like people coming away from  watching a game or a race.  
"Tu-whoo! Ahem! Lord Regent," said the Owl, stooping down a little and holding its  beak near the Dwarf's ear.  
"Heh? What's that?" said the Dwarf.  
"Two strangers, my lord," said the Owl.  
"Rangers! What d'ye mean?" said the Dwarf. "I see two uncommonly grubby man-cubs.  What do they want?"  
"My name's Jill," said Jill, pressing forward. She was very eager to explain the important  business on which they had come.  
"The girl's called Jill," said the Owl, as loud as it could.  
"What's that?" said the Dwarf. "The girls are all killed! I don't believe a word of it. What  girls? Who killed 'em?"  
"Only one girl, my lord," said the Owl. "Her name is Jill."  
 
 "Speak up, speak up," said the Dwarf. "Don't stand there buzzing and twittering in my  ear. Who's been killed?"  
"Nobody's been killed," hooted the Owl.  
"Who?"  
"NOBODY."  
"All right, all right. You needn't shout. I'm not so deaf as all that. What do you mean by  coming here to tell me that nobody's been killed? Why should anyone have been killed?"  
"Better tell him I'm Eustace," said Scrubb.  
"The boy's Eustace, my lord," hooted the Owl as loud as it could.  
"Useless?" said the Dwarf irritably. "I dare say he is. Is that any reason for bringing him  to court? Hey?"  
"Not useless," said the Owl. "EUSTACE."  
"Used to it, is he? I don't know what you're talking about, I'm sure. I tell you what it is,  Master Glimfeather; when I was a young Dwarf there used to be talking beasts and birds  in this country who really could talk. There wasn't all this mumbling and muttering and  whispering. It wouldn't have been tolerated for a moment. Not for a moment, Sir. Urnus,  my trumpet please -"  
A little Faun who had been standing quietly beside the Dwarf's elbow all this time now  handed him a silver eartrumpet. It was made like the musical instrument called a serpent,  so that the tube curled right round the Dwarf's neck. While he was getting it settled the  Owl, Glimfeather, suddenly said to the children in a whisper:  
"My brain's a bit clearer now. Don't say anything about the lost Prince. I'll explain later. It  wouldn't do, wouldn't do, Tu-Whoo! Oh what a to-do!"  
"Now," said the Dwarf, "if you have anything sensible to say, Master Glimfeather, try  and say it. Take a deep breath and don't attempt to speak too quickly."  
With help from the children, and in spite of a fit of coughing on the part of the Dwarf,  Glimfeather explained that the strangers had been sent by Aslan to visit the court of  Narnia. The Dwarf glanced quickly up at them with a new expression in his eyes.  
"Sent by the Lion Himself, hey?" he said. "And from m'm - from that other Place -  beyond the world's end, hey?"  
"Yes, my lord," bawled Eustace into the trumpet.  
 
   
"Son of Adam and Daughter of Eve, hey?" said the Dwarf. But people at Experiment  House haven't heard of Adam and Eve, so Jill and Eustace couldn't answer this. But the  Dwarf didn't seem to notice.  
"Well, my dears," he said, taking first one and then the other by the hand and bowing his  head a little. "You are very heartily welcome. If the good King, my poor Master, had not  this very hour set sail for Seven Isles, he would have been glad of your coming. It would  have brought back his youth to him for a moment - for a moment. And now, it is high  time for supper. You shall tell me your business in full council tomorrow morning.  Master Glimfeather, see that bedchambers and suitable clothes and all else are provided  for these guests in the most honourable fashion. And - Glimfeather - in your ear -"  
Here the Dwarf put his mouth close to the Owl's head and, no doubt, intended to whisper:  but, like other deaf people, he wasn't a very good judge of his own voice, and both  children heard him say, "See that they're properly washed."  
After that, the Dwarf touched up his donkey and it set off towards the castle at something  between a trot and a waddle (it was a very fat little beast), while the Faun, the Owl, and  the children followed at a rather slower pace. The sun had set and the air was growing  cool.  
They went across the lawn and then through an orchard and so to the North Gate of Cair  Paravel, which stood wide open. Inside, they found a grassy courtyard. Lights were  already showing from the windows of the great hall on their right and from a more  complicated mass of buildings straight ahead. Into these the Owl led them, and there a  most delightful person was called to look after Jill. She was not much taller than Jill  herself, and a good deal slenderer, but obviously full grown, graceful as a willow, and her  hair was willowy too, and there seemed to be moss in it. She brought Jill to a round room  in one of the turrets, where there was a little bath sunk in the floor and a fire of sweet- smelling woods burning on the flat hearth and a lamp hanging by a silver chain from the  vaulted roof. The window looked west into the strange land of Narnia, and Jill saw the  red remains of the sunset still glowing behind distant mountains. It made her long for  more adventures and feel sure that this was only the beginning.  
When she had had her bath, and brushed her hair, and put on the clothes that had been  laid out for her - they were the kind that not only felt nice, but looked nice and smelled  nice and made nice sounds when you moved as well - she would have gone back to gaze  out of that exciting window, but she was interrupted by a bang on the door.  
"Come in," said Jill. And in came Scrubb, also bathed and splendidly dressed in Narnian  clothes. But his face didn't look as if he were enjoying it.  
"Oh, here you are at last," he said crossly, flinging himself into a chair. "I've been trying  to find you for ever so long."  
 
 "Well, now you have," said Jill. "I say, Scrubb, isn't it all simply too exciting and  scrumptious for words." She had forgotten all about the signs and the lost Prince for the  moment.  
"Oh! That's what you think, is it?" said Scrubb: and then, after a pause, "I wish to  goodness we'd never come."  
"Why on earth?"  
"I can't bear it," said Scrubb. "Seeing the King Caspian - a doddering old man like that.  It's - it's frightful."  
"Why, what harm does it do you?"  
"Oh, you don't understand. Now that I come to think of it, you couldn't. I didn't tell you  that this world has a different time from ours."  
"How do you mean?"  
"The time you spend here doesn't take up any of our time. Do you see? I mean, however  long we spend here, we shall still get back to Experiment House at the moment we left it  -"  
"That won't be much fun."  
"Oh, dry up! Don't keep interrupting. And when you're back in England - in our world -  you can't tell how time is going here. It might be any number of years in Narnia while  we're having one year at home. The Pevensies explained it all to me, but, like a fool, I  forgot about it. And now apparently it's been about seventy years Narnian years - since I  was here last. Do you see now? And I come back and find Caspian an old, old man."  
"Then the King was an old friend of yours!" said Jill. A horrid thought had struck her.  
"I should jolly well think he was," said Scrubb miserably. "About as good a friend as a  chap could have. And last time he was only a few years older than me. And to see that  old man with a white beard, and to remember Caspian as he was the morning we captured  the Lone Islands, or in the fight with the Sea Serpent - oh, it's frightful. It's worse than  coming back and finding him dead."  
"Oh, shut up," said Jill impatiently. "It's far worse than you think. We've muffed the first  Sign." Of course Scrubb did not understand this. Then Jill told him about her  conversation with Aslan and the four signs and the task of finding the lost prince which  had been laid upon them.  
 
 "So you see," she wound up, "you did see an old friend, just as Aslan said, and you ought  to have gone and spoken to him at once. And now you haven't, and everything is going  wrong from the very beginning."  
"But how was I to know?" said Scrubb.  
"If you'd only listened to me when I tried to tell you, we'd be all right," said Jill.  
"Yes, and if you hadn't played the fool on the edge of that cliff and jolly nearly murdered  me - all right, I said murder, and I'll say it again as often as I like, so keep your hair on -  we'd have come together and both known what to do."  
"I suppose he was the first person you saw?" said Jill. "You must have been here hours  before me. Are you sure you didn't see anyone else first?"  
"I was only here about a minute before you," said Scrubb. "He must have blown you  quicker than me. Making up for lost time: the time you lost."  
"Don't be a perfect beast, Scrubb," said Jill. "Hallo! What's that?"  
It was the castle bell ringing for supper, and thus what looked like turning into a first-rate  quarrel was happily cut short. Both had a good appetite by this time.  
Supper in the great hall of the castle was the most splendid thing either of them had ever  seen; for though Eustace had been in that world before, he had spent his whole visit at sea  and knew nothing of the glory and courtesy of the Narnians at home in their own land.  The banners hung from the roof, and each course came in with trumpeters and  kettledrums. There were soups that would make your mouth water to think of, and the  lovely fishes called pavenders, and venison and peacock and pies, and ices and jellies and  fruit and nuts, and all manner of wines and fruit drinks. Even Eustace cheered up and  admitted that it was "something like". And when all the serious eating and drinking was  over, a blind poet came forward and struck up the grand old tale of Prince Cor and Aravis  and the horse Bree, which is called The Horse and his Boy and tells of an adventure that  happened in Narnia and Calormen and the lands between, in the Golden Age when Peter  was High King in Cair Paravel. (I haven't time to tell it now, though it is well worth  hearing.)  
When they were dragging themselves upstairs to bed, yawning their heads off, Jill said, "I  bet we sleep well, tonight"; for it had been a full day. Which just shows how little anyone  knows what is going to happen to them next.  
  
  
CHAPTER FOUR  
 
   
A PARLIAMENT OF OWLS  
  
IT is a very funny thing that the sleepier you are, the longer you take about getting to bed;  especially if you are lucky enough to have a fire in your room. Jill felt she couldn't even  start undressing unless she sat down in front of the fire for a bit first. And once she had  sat down, she didn't want to get up again. She had already said to herself about five times,  "I must go to bed", when she was startled by a tap on the window.  
She got up, pulled the curtain, and at first saw nothing but darkness. Then she jumped  and started backwards, for something very large had dashed itself against the window,  giving a sharp tap on the glass as. it did so. A very unpleasant idea came into her head -  "Suppose they have giant moths in this country! Ugh!" But then the thing came back, and  this time she was almost sure she saw a beak, and that the beak had made that tapping  noise. "It's some huge bird," thought Jill. "Could it be an eagle?" She didn't very much  want a visit even from an eagle, but she opened the window and looked out. Instantly,  with a great whirring noise, the creature alighted on the window-sill and stood there  filling up the whole window, so that Jill had to step back to make room for it. It was the  Owl.  
"Hush, hush! Tu-whoo, tu-whoo," said the Owl. "Don't make a noise. Now, are you two  really in earnest about what you've got to do?"  
"About the lost Prince, you mean?" said Jill. "Yes, we've got to be." For now she  remembered the Lion's voice and face, which she had nearly forgotten during the feasting  and story-telling in the hall.  
"Good!" said the Owl. "Then there's no time to waste.  
You must get away from here at once. I'll go and wake the other human. Then I'll come  back for you. You'd better change those court clothes and put on something you can  travel in. I'll be back in two twos. Tu-whoo!" And without waiting for an answer, he was  gone.  
If Jill had been more used to adventures, she might have doubted the Owl's word, but this  never occurred to her: and in the exciting idea of a midnight escape she forgot her  sleepiness. She changed back into sweater and shorts there was a guide's knife on the belt  of the shorts which might come in useful - and added a few of the things that had been  left in the room for her by the girl with the willowy hair. She chose a short cloak that  came down to her knees and had a hood ("just the thing, if it rains," she thought), a few  handkerchiefs and a comb. Then she sat down and waited.  
She was getting sleepy again when the Owl returned.  
"Now we're ready," it said.  
 
   
"You'd better lead the way," said Jill. "I don't know all these passages yet."  
"Tu-whoo!" said the Owl. "We're not going through the castle. That would never do. You  must ride on me. We shall fly."  
"Oh!" said Jill, and stood with her mouth open, not much liking the idea. "Shan't I be too  heavy for you?"  
"Tu-whoo, tu-whoo! Don't you be a fool. I've already carried the other one. Now. But  we'll put out that lamp first."  
As soon as the lamp was out, the bit of the night which you saw through the window  looked less dark - no longer black, but grey. The Owl stood on the window-sill with his  back to the room and raised his wings. Jill had to climb on to his short fat body and get  her knees under the wings and grip tight. The feathers felt beautifully warm and soft but  there was nothing to hold on by. "I wonder how Scrubb liked his ride!" thought Jill. And  just as she was thinking this, with a horrid plunge they had left the window-sill, and the  wings were making a flurry round her ears, and the night air, rather cool and damp, was  flying in her face.  
It was much lighter than she expected, and though the sky was overcast, one patch of  watery silver showed where the moon was hiding above the clouds. The fields beneath  her looked grey, and the trees black. There was a certain amount of wind - a hushing,  ruffling sort of wind which meant that rain was coming soon.  
The Owl wheeled round so that the castle was now ahead of them. Very few of the  windows showed lights. They flew right over it, northwards, crossing the river: the air  grew colder, and Jill thought she could see the white reflection of the Owl in the water  beneath her. But soon they were on the north bank of the river, flying above wooded  country.  
The Owl snapped at something which Jill couldn't see.  
"Oh, don't, please!" said Jill. "Don't jerk like that. You nearly threw me off."  
"I beg your pardon," said the Owl. "I was just nabbing a bat. There's nothing so  sustaining, in a small way, as a nice plump little bat. Shall I catch you one?"  
"No, thanks," said Jill with a shudder.  
He was flying a little lower now and a large, black looking object was looming up  towards them. Jill had just time to see that it was a tower - a partly ruinous tower, with a  lot of ivy on it, she thought - when she found herself ducking to avoid the archway of a  window, as the Owl squeezed with her through the ivied cobwebby opening, out of the  fresh, grey night into a dark place inside the top of the tower. It was rather fusty inside  
 
 and, the moment she slipped off the Owl's back, she knew (as one usually does somehow)  that it was quite crowded And when voices began saying out of the darkness from every  direction "Tuwhoo! Tu-whoo!" she knew it was crowded with owls. She was rather  relieved when a very different voice said:  
"Is that you, Pole?"  
"Is that you, Scrubb?" said Jill.  
"Now," said Glimfeather, "I think we're all here. Let us hold a parliament of owls."  
"Tu-whoo, tu-whoo. True for you. That's the right thing to do," said several voices.  
"Half a moment," said Scrubb's voice. "There's something I want to say first."  
"Do, do, do," said the owls; and Jill said, "Fire ahead."  
"I suppose all you chaps-owls, I mean," said Scrubb, "I suppose you all know that King  Caspian the Tenth, in his young days, sailed to the eastern end of the world. Well, I was  with him on that journey: with him and Reepicheep the Mouse, and the Lord Drinian and  all of them. I know it sounds hard to believe, but people don't grow older in our world at  the same speed as they do in yours. And what I want to say is this, that I'm the King's  man; and if this parliament of owls is any sort of plot against the King, I'm having  nothing to do with it."  
"Tu-whoo, tu-whoo, we're all the King's owls too," said the owls.  
"What's it all about then?" said Scrubb.  
"It's only this," said Glimfeather. "That if the Lord Regent, the Dwarf Trumpkin, hears  you are going to look for the lost Prince, he won't let you start. He'd keep you under lock  and key sooner."  
"Great Scott!" said Scrubb. "You don't mean that Trumpkin is a traitor? I used to hear a  lot about him in the old days, at sea. Caspian - the King, I mean - trusted him absolutely."  
"Oh no," said a voice. "Trumpkin's no traitor. But more than thirty champions (knights,  centaurs, good giants, and all sorts) have at one time or another set out to look for the lost  Prince, and none of them have ever come back. And at last the King said he was not  going to have all the bravest Narnians destroyed in the search for his son. And now  nobody is allowed to go."  
"But surely he'd let us go," said Scrubb. "When he knew who I was and who had sent  me."  
("Sent both of us," put in Jill.)  
 
   
"Yes," said Glimfeather, "I think, very likely, he would. But the King's away. And  Trumpkin will stick to the rules. He's as true as steel, but he's deaf as a post and very  peppery. You could never make him see that this might be the time for making an  exception to the rule."  
"You might think he'd take some notice of us, because we're owls and everyone knows  how wise owls are," said someone else. "But he's so old now he'd only say, `You're a  mere chick. I remember you when you were an egg. Don't come trying to teach me, Sir.  Crabs and crumpets!'"  
This owl imitated Trumpkin's voice rather well, and there were sounds of owlish laughter  all round. The children began to see that the Narnians all felt about Trumpkin as people  feel at school about some crusty teacher, whom everyone is a little afraid of and everyone  makes fun of and nobody really dislikes.  
"How long is the King going to be away?" asked Scrubb.  
"If only we knew!" said Glimfeather. "You see, there has been a rumour lately that Aslan  himself has been seen in the islands - in Terebinthia, I think it was. And the King said he  would make one more attempt before he died to see Aslan face to face again, and ask his  advice about who is to be King after him. But we're all afraid that, if he doesn't meet  Aslan in Terebinthia, he'll go on east, to Seven Isles and Lone Islands - and on and on. He  never talks about it, but we all know he has never forgotten that voyage to the world's  end. I'm sure in his heart of hearts he wants to go there again."  
"Then there's no good waiting for him to come back?" said Jill.  
"No, no good," said the Owl. "Oh, what a to-do! If only you two had known and spoken  to him at once! He'd have arranged everything - probably given you an army to go with  you in search of the Prince."  
Jill kept quiet at this and hoped Scrubb would be sporting enough not to tell all the owls  why this hadn't happened. He was, or very nearly. That is, he only muttered under his  breath, "Well, it wasn't my fault," before saying out loud:  
"Very well. We'll have to manage without it. But there's just one thing more I want to  know. If this owls' parliament, as you call it, is all fair and above board and means no  mischief, why does it have to be so jolly secret- meeting in a ruin in dead of night, and all  that?"  
"Tu-whoo! Tu-whoo!" hooted several owls. "Where should we meet? When would  anyone meet except at night?"  
"You see," explained Glimfeather, "most of the creatures in Narnia have such unnatural  habits. They do things by day, in broad blazing sunlight (ugh!) when everyone ought to  
 
 be asleep. And, as a result, at night they're so blind and stupid that you can't get a word  out of them. So we owls have got into the habit of meeting at sensible hours, on our own,  when we want to talk about things."  
"I see," said Scrubb. "Well now, let's get on. Tell us all about the lost Prince." Then an  old owl, not Glimfeather, related the story.  
About ten years ago, it appeared, when Rilian, the son of Caspian, was a very young  knight, he rode with the Queen his mother on a May morning in the north parts of Narnia.  They had many squires and ladies with them and all wore garlands of fresh leaves on  their heads, and horns at their sides; but they had no hounds with them, for they were  maying, not hunting. In the warm part of the day they came to a pleasant glade where a  fountain flowed freshly out of the earth, and there they dismounted and ate and drank and  were merry. After a time the Queen felt sleepy, and they spread cloaks for her on the  grassy bank, and Prince Rilian with the rest of the party went a little way from her, that  their tales and laughter might not wake her. And so, presently, a great serpent came out of  the thick wood and stung the Queen in her hand. All heard her cry out and rushed towards  her, and Rilian was first at her side. He saw the worm gliding away from her and made  after it with his sword drawn. It was great, shining, and as green as poison, so that he  could see it well: but it glided away into thick bushes and he could not come at it. So he  returned to his mother, and found them all busy about her.  
But they were busy in vain, for at the first glance of her face Rilian knew that no physic  in the world would do her good. As long as the life was in her she seemed to be trying  hard to tell him something. But she could not speak clearly and, whatever her message  was, she died without delivering it. It was then hardly ten minutes since they had first  heard her cry.  
They carried the dead Queen back to Cair Paravel, and she was bitterly mourned by  Rilian and by the King, and by all Narnia. She had been a great lady, wise and gracious  and happy, King Caspian's bride whom he had brought home from the eastern end of the  world. And men said that the blood of the stars flowed in her veins. The Prince took his  mother's death very hardly, as well he might. After that, he was always riding on the  northern marches of Narnia, hunting for that venomous worm, to kill it and be avenged.  No one remarked much on this, though the Prince came home from these wanderings  looking tired and distraught. But about a month after the Queen's death, some said they  could see a change in him. There was a look in his eyes as of a man who has seen visions,  and though he would be out all day, his horse did not bear the signs of hard riding. His  chief friend among the older courtiers was the Lord Driman, he who had been his father's  captain on that great voyage to the east parts of the earth.  
One evening Drinian said to the Prince, "Your Highness must soon give over seeking the  worm. There is no true vengeance on a witless brute as there might be on a man. You  weary yourself in vain." The Prince answered him, "My Lord, I have almost forgotten the  worm this seven days." Drinian asked him why, if that were so, he rode so continually in  the northern woods. "My lord," said the Prince, "I have seen there the most beautiful  
 
 thing that was ever made." "Fair Prince," said Drinian, "of your courtesy let me ride with  you tomorrow, that I also may see this fair thing." "With a good will," said Rilian.  
Then in good time on the next day they saddled their horses and rode a great gallop into  the northern woods and alighted at that same fountain where the Queen got her death.  Drinian thought it strange that the Prince should choose that place of all places, to linger  in. And there they rested till it came to high noon: and at noon Drinian looked up and saw  the most beautiful lady he had ever seen; and she stood at the north side of the fountain  and said no word but beckoned to the Prince with her hand as if she bade him come to  her. And she was tall and great, shining, and wrapped in a thin garment as green as  poison. And the Prince stared at her like a man out of his wits. But suddenly the lady was  gone, Driman knew not where; and the two returned to Cair Paravel. It stuck in Drinian's  mind that this shining green woman was evil.  
Drinian doubted very much whether he ought not to tell this adventure to the King, but he  had little wish to be a blab and a tale-bearer and so he held his tongue. But afterwards he  wished he had spoken. For next day Prince Rilian rode out alone. That night he came not  back, and from that hour no trace of him was ever found in Narnia nor any neighbouring  land, and neither his horse nor his hat nor his cloak nor anything else was ever found.  Then Drinian in the bitterness of his heart went to Caspian and said, "Lord King, slay me  speedily as a great traitor: for by my silence I have destroyed your son." And he told him  the story. Then Caspian caught up a battle-axe and rushed upon the Lord Drinian to kill  him, and Drinian stood still as a stock for the death blow. But when the axe was raised,  Caspian suddenly threw it away and cried out, "I have lost my queen and my son: shall I  lose my friend also?" And he fell upon the Lord Drinian's neck and embraced him and  both wept, and their friendship was not broken.  
Such was the story of Rilian. And when it was over, Jill said, "I bet that serpent and that  woman were the same person."  
"True, true, we think the same as you," hooted the owls.  
"But we don't think she killed the Prince," said Glimfeather, "because no bones -"  
"We know she didn't," said Scrubb. "Aslan told Pole he was still alive somewhere."  
"That almost makes it worse," said the oldest owl. "It means she has some use for him,  and some deep scheme against Narnia. Long, long ago, at the very beginning, a White  Witch came out of the North and bound our land in snow and ice for a hundred years.  And we think this may be some of the same crew."  
"Very well, then," said Scrubb. "Pole and I have got to `Find this Prince. Can you help  us?"  
"Have you any clue, you two?" asked Glimfeather.  
 
 "Yes," said Scrubb. "We know we've got to go north. And w e know we've got to reach  the ruins of a giant city."  
At this there was a greater tu-whooing than ever, and noise of birds shifting their feet and  ruffling their feathers, and then all the owls started speaking at once. They all explained  how very sorry they were that they themselves could not go with the children on their  search for the lost Prince "You'd want to travel by day, and we'd want to travel by night,"  they said. "It wouldn't do, wouldn't do." One or two owls added that even here in the  ruined tower it wasn't nearly so dark as it had been when they began, and that the  parliament had been going on quite long enough. In fact, the mere mention of a journey  to the ruined city of giants seemed to have damped the spirits of those birds. But  Glimfeather said:  
"If they want to go that way - into Ettinsmoor - we must take them to one of the Marsh- wiggles. They're the Only people who can help them much."  
"'True, true. Do," said the owls.  
"Come on, then," said Glimfeather. "I'll take one. Who'll take the other? It must be done  tonight."  
"I will: as far as the Marsh-wiggles," said another owl.  
"Are you ready?" said Glimfeather to Jill.  
"I think Pole's asleep," said Scrubb.  
  
  
CHAPTER FIVE  
PUDDLEGLUM  
  
JILL. was asleep. Ever since the owls' parliament began she had been yawning terribly  and now she had dropped off. She was not at all pleased at being waked again, and at  finding herself lying on bare boards in a dusty belfry sort of place, completely dark, and  almost completely full of owls. She was even less pleased when she heard that they had  to set off for somewhere else - and not, apparently, for bed - on the Owl's back.  
"Oh, come on, Pole, buck up," said Scrubb's voice. "After all, it is an adventure."  
"I'm sick of adventures," said Jill crossly.  
 
 She did, however, consent to climb on to Glimfeather's back, and was thoroughly waked  up (for a while) by the unexpected coldness of the air when he flew out with her into the  night. The moon had disappeared and there were no stars. Far behind her she could see a  single lighted window well above the ground; doubtless, in one of the towers of Cair  Paravel. It made her long to be back in that delightful bedroom, snug in bed, watching the  firelight on the walls. She put her hands under her cloak and wrapped it tightly round her.  It was uncanny to hear two voices in the dark air a little distance away; Scrubb and his  owl were talking to one another. "He doesn't sound tired," thought Jill. She did not realize  that he had been on great adventures in that world before and that the Narnian air was  bringing back to him a strength he had won when he sailed the Eastern Seas with King  Caspian.  
Jill had to pinch herself to keep awake, for she knew that if she dozed on Glimfeather's  back she would probably fall off. When at last the two owls ended their flight, she  climbed stiffly off Glimfeather and found herself on flat ground. A chilly wind was  blowing and they appeared to be in a place without trees. "Tu-whoo, tu-whoo!"  Glimfeather was calling. "Wake up, Puddleglum. Wake up. It is on the Lion's business."  
For a long time there was no reply. Then, a long way off, a dim light appeared and began  to come nearer. With it came a voice.  
"Owls ahoy!" it said. "What is it? Is the King dead? Has an enemy landed in Narnia? Is it  a flood? Or dragons?"  
When the light reached them, it turned out to be that of a large lantern. She could see very  little of the person who held it. He seemed to be all legs and arms. The owls were talking  to him, explaining everything, but she was too tired to listen. She tried to wake herself up  a bit when she realized that they were saying goodbye to her. But she could never  afterwards remember much except that, sooner or later, she and Scrubb were stooping to  enter a low doorway and then (oh, thank heavens) were lying down on something soft  and warm, and a voice was saying:  
"There you are. Best we can do. You'll lie cold and hard. Damp too, I shouldn't wonder.  Won't sleep a wink, most likely; even if there isn't a thunderstorm or a flood or the  wigwam doesn't fall down on top of us all, as I've known them do. Must make the best of  it -" But she was fast asleep before the voice had ended.  
When the children woke late next morning they found that they were lying, very dry and  warm, on beds of straw in a dark place. A triangular opening let in the daylight.  
"Where on earth are we?" asked Jill.  
"In the wigwam of a Marsh-wiggle," said Eustace.  
"A what?"  
 
 "A Marsh-wiggle. Don't ask me what it is. I couldn't see it last night. I'm getting up. Let's  go and look for it."  
"How beastly one feels after sleeping in one's clothes," said Jill, sitting up.  
"I was just thinking how nice it was not to have to dress," said Eustace.  
"Or wash either, I suppose," said Jill scornfully. But Scrubb had already got up, yawned,  shaken himself, and crawled out of the wigwam. Jill did the same.  
What they found outside was quite unlike the bit of Narnia they had seen on the day  before. They were on a great flat plain which was cut into countless little islands by  countless channels of water. The islands were covered with coarse grass and bordered  with reeds and rushes. Sometimes there were beds of rushes about an acre in extent.  Clouds of birds were constantly alighting in them and rising from them again-duck,  snipe, bitterns, herons. Many wigwams like that in which they had passed the night could  be seen dotted about, but all at a good distance from one another; for Marsh-wiggles are  people who like privacy. Except for the fringe of the forest several miles to the south and  west of them, there was not a tree in sight. Eastward the flat marsh stretched to low sand- hills on the horizon, and you could tell by the salt tang in the wind which blew from that  direction that the sea lay over there. To the North there were low pale-coloured hills, in  places bastioned with rock. The rest was all flat marsh. It would have been a depressing  place on a w et evening. Seen under a morning sun, with a fresh wind blowing, and the  air filled with the crying of birds, there was something fine and fresh and clean about its  loneliness. The children felt their spirits rise.  
"Where has the thingummy got to, I wonder?" said Jill.  
"The Marsh-wiggle," said Scrubb, as if he were rather proud of knowing the word. "I  expect-hullo, that must be him." And then they both saw him, sitting with his back to  them, fishing, about fifty yards away. He had been hard to see at first because he was  nearly the same colour as the marsh and because he sat so still.  
"I suppose we'd better go and speak to him," said Jill. Scrubb nodded. They both felt a  little nervous.  
As they drew nearer, the figure turned its head and showed them a long thin face with  rather sunken cheeks, a tightly shut mouth, a sharp nose, and no beard. He was wearing a  high, pointed hat like a steeple, with an enormously wide flat brim. The hair, if it could  be called hair, which hung over his large ears was greeny-grey, and each lock was flat  rather than round, so that they were like tiny reeds. His expression was solemn, his  complexion muddy, and you could see at once that he took a serious view of life.  
"Good morning, Guests," he said. "Though when I say good I don't mean it won't  probably turn to rain or it might he snow, or fog, or thunder. You didn't get any sleep, I  dare say.  
 
   
"Yes we did, though," said Jill. "We had a lovely night."  
"Ah," said the Marsh-wiggle, shaking his head. "I see you're making the best of a bad job.  That's right. You've been well brought up, you have. You've learned to put a good face on  things."  
"Please, we don't know your name," said Scrubb.  
"Puddleglum's my name. But it doesn't matter if you forget it. I can always tell you  again."  
The children sat down on each side of him. They now saw that he had very long legs and  arms, so that although his body was not much bigger than a dwarf's, he would be taller  than most men when he stood up. The fingers of his hands were webbed like a frog's, and  so were his bare feet which dangled in the muddy water. He was dressed in earthcoloured  clothes that hung loose about him.  
"I'm trying to catch a few eels to make an eel stew for our dinner," said Puddleglum.  "Though I shouldn't wonder if I didn't get any. And you won't like them much if I do."  
"Why not?" asked Scrubb.  
"Why, it's not in reason that you should like our sort of victuals, though I've no doubt  you'll put a bold face on it. All the same, while I am a catching of them, if you two could  try to light the fire - no harm trying -! The wood's behind the wigwam. It may be wet.  You could light it inside the wigwam, and then we'd get all the smoke in our eyes. Or you  could light it outside, and then the rain would come and put it out. Here's my tinder-box.  You won't know how to use it, I expect."  
But Scrubb had learned that sort of thing on his last adventure. The children ran back  together to the wigwam, found the wood (which was perfectly dry) and succeeded in  lighting a fire with rather less than the usual difficulty. Then Scrubb sat and took care of  it while Jill went and had some sort of wash - not a very nice one - in the nearest channel.  After that she saw to the fire and he had a wash. Both felt a good deal fresher, but very  hungry.  
Presently the Marsh-wiggle joined them. In spite of his expectation of catching no eels,  he had a dozen or so, which he had already skinned and cleaned. He put a big pot on,  mended the fire, and lit his pipe. Marsh-wiggles smoke a very strange, heavy sort of  tobacco (some people say they mix it with mud) and the children noticed the smoke from  Puddleglum's pipe hardly rose in the air at all. It trickled out of the bowl and downwards  and drifted along the ground like a mist. It was very black and set Scrubb coughing.  
"Now," said Puddleglum. "Those eels will take a mortal long time to cook, and either of  you might faint with hunger before they're done. I knew a little girl - but I'd better not tell  
 
 you that story. It might lower your spirits, and that's a thing I never do. So, to keep your  minds off your hunger, we may as well talk about our plans."  
"Yes, do let's," said Jill. "Can you help us to find Prince Rilian?"  
The Marsh-wiggle sucked in his cheeks till they were hollower than you would have  thought possible. "Well, I don't know that you'd call it help," he said. "I don't know that  anyone can exactly help. It stands to reason we're not likely to get very far on a journey to  the North, not at this time of the year, with the winter coming on soon and all. And an  early winter too, by the look of things. But you mustn't let that make you down-hearted.  Very likely, what with enemies, and mountains, and rivers to cross, and losing our way,  and next to nothing to eat, and sore feet, we'll hardly notice the weather. And if we don't  get far enough to do any good, we may get far enough not to get back in a hurry."  
Both children noticed that he said "we", not "you", and both exclaimed at the same  moment. "Are you coming with us?"  
"Oh yes, I'm coming of course. Might as well, you see. I don't suppose we shall ever see  the King back in Narnia, now that he's once set off for foreign parts; and he had a nasty  cough when he left. Then there's Trumpkin. He's failing fast. And you'll find there'll have  been a bad harvest after this terrible dry summer. And I shouldn't wonder if some enemy  attacked us. Mark my words."  
"And how shall we start?" said Scrubb.  
"Well," said the Marsh-wiggle very slowly, "all the others who ever went looking for  Prince Rilian started from that same fountain where the Lord Drinian saw the lady. They  went north, mostly. And as none of them ever came back, we can't exactly say how they  got on."  
"We've got to start by finding a ruined city of giants," said Jill. "Aslan said so."  
"Got to start by finding it, have we?" answered Puddleglum. "Not allowed to start by  looking for it, I suppose?"  
"That's what I meant, of course," said Jill. "And then, when we've found it-"  
"Yes, when!" said Puddleglum very drily.  
"Doesn't anyone know where it is?" asked Scrubb.  
"I don't know about Anyone," said Puddleglum. "And I won't say I haven't heard of that  Ruined City. You wouldn't start from the fountain, though. You'd have to go across  Ettinsmoor. That's where the Ruined City is, if it's anywhere. But I've been as far in that  direction as most people and I never got to any ruins, so I won't deceive you."  
 
 "Where's Ettinsmoor?" said Scrubb.  
"Look over there northward," said Puddleglum, pointing with his pipe. "See those hills  and bits of cliff? That's the beginning of Ettinsmoor. But there's a river between it and us;  the river Shribble. No bridges, of course."  
"I suppose we can ford it, though," said Scrubb.  
"Well, it has been forded," admitted the Marsh-wiggle.  
"Perhaps we shall meet people on Ettinsmoor who can tell us the way," said Jill.  
"You're right about meeting people," said Puddleglum.  
"What sort of people live there?" she asked.  
"It's not for me to say they aren't all right in their own way," answered Puddleglum. "If  you like their way."  
"Yes, but what are they?" pressed Jill. "There are so many queer creatures in this country.  I mean, are they animals, or birds, or dwarfs, or what?"  
The Marsh-wiggle gave a long whistle. "Phew!" he said. "Don't you know? I thought the  owls had told you. They're giants."  
Jill winced. She had never liked giants even in books, and she had once met one in a  nightmare. Then she saw Scrubb's face, which had turned rather green, and thought to  herself, "I bet he's in a worse funk than I am." That made her feel braver.  
"The King told me long ago," said Scrubb - "that time when I was with him at sea-that  he'd jolly well beaten those giants in war and made them pay him tribute."  
"That's true enough," said Puddleglum. "They're at peace with us all right. As long as we  stay on our own side of the Shribble, they won't do us any harm. Over on their side, on  the Moor - Still, there's always a chance. If we don't get near any of them, and if none of  them forget themselves, and if we're not seen, it's just possible we might get a long way."  
"Look here!" said Scrubb, suddenly losing his temper, as people so easily do when they  have been frightened. "I don't believe the whole thing can be half as bad as you're making  out; any more than the beds in the wigwam were hard or the wood was wet. I don't think  Aslan would ever have sent us if there was so little chance as all that."  
He quite expected the Marsh-wiggle to give him an angry reply, but he only said, "That's  the spirit, Scrubb. That's the way to talk. Put a good face on it. But we all need to be very  careful about our tempers, seeing all the hard times we shall have to go through together.  Won't do to quarrel, you know. At any rate, don't begin it too soon. I know these  
 
 expeditions usually end that way: knifing one another, I shouldn't wonder, before all's  done. But the longer we can keep off it-"  
"Well, if you feel it's so hopeless," interrupted Scrubb, "I think you'd better stay behind.  Pole and I can go on alone, can't we, Pole?"  
"Shut up and don't be an ass, Scrubb," said Jill hastily, terrified lest the Marsh-wiggle  should take him at his word.  
"Don't you lose heart, Pole," said Puddleglum. "I'm coming, sure and certain. I'm not  going to lose an opportunity like this. It will do me good. They all say - I mean, the other  wiggles all say-that I'm too flighty; don't take life seriously enough. If they've said it  once, they've said it a thousand times. 'Puddleglum,' they've said, `you're altogether too  full of bobance and bounce and high spirits. You've got to learn that life isn't all  fricasseed frogs and eel pie. You want something to sober you down a bit. We're only  saying it for your own good, Puddleglum.' That's what they say. Now a job like this - a  journey up north just as winter's beginning, looking for a Prince that probably isn't there,  by way of a ruined city that no one has ever seen - will be just the thing. If that doesn't  steady a chap, I don't know what will." And he rubbed his big frog-like hands together as  if he were talking of going to a party or a pantomime. "And now," he added, "let's see  how those eels are getting on."  
When the meal came it was delicious and the children had two large helpings each. At  first the Marsh-wiggle wouldn't believe that they really liked it, and when they had eaten  so much that he had to believe them, he fell back on saying that it would probably  disagree with them horribly. "What's food for wiggles may be poison for humans, I  shouldn't wonder," he said. After the meal they had tea, in tins (as you've seen men  having it who are working on the road), and Puddleglum had a good many sips out of a  square black bottle. He offered the children some of it, but they thought it very nasty.  
The rest of the day was spent in preparations for an early start tomorrow morning.  Puddleglum, being far the biggest, said he would carry three blankets, with a large bit of  bacon rolled up inside them. Jill was to carry the remains of the eels, some biscuit, and  the tinder-box. Scrubb was to carry both his own cloak and Jill's when they didn't want to  wear them. Scrubb (who had learned some shooting when he sailed to the East under  Caspian) had Puddleglum's secondbest bow, and Puddleglum had his best one; though he  said that what with winds, and damp bowstrings, and bad light, and cold fingers, it was a  hundred to one against either of them hitting anything. He and Scrubb both had swords  Scrubb had brought the one which had been left out for him in his room at Cair Paravel,  but Jill had to be content with her knife. There would have been a quarrel about this, but  as soon as they started sparring the wiggle rubbed his hands and said, "Ah, there you are.  I thought as much. That's what usually happens on adventures." This made them both  shut up.  
All three went to bed early in the wigwam. This time the children really had a rather bad  night. That was because Puddleglum, after saying, "You'd better try for some sleep, you  
 
 two; not that I suppose any of us will close an eye tonight," instantly went off into such a  loud, continuous snore that, when Jill at last got to sleep, she dreamed all night about  road-drills and waterfalls and being in express trains in tunnels.  
  
  
CHAPTER SIX  
THE WILD WASTE LANDS OF THE NORTH  
  
AT about nine o'clock next morning three lonely figures might have been seen picking  their way across the Shribble by the shoals and stepping-stones. It was a shallow, noisy  stream, and even Jill was not wet above her knees when they reached the northern bank.  About fifty yards ahead, the land rose up to the beginning of the moor, everywhere  steeply, and often in cliffs.  
"I suppose that's our way!" said Scrubb, pointing left and west to where a stream flowed  down from the moor through a shallow gorge. But the Marsh-wiggle shook his head.  
"The giants mainly live along the side of that gorge," he said. "You might say the gorge  was like a street to them. We'll do better straight ahead, even though it's a bit steep."  
They found a place where they could scramble up, and in about ten minutes stood panting  at the top. They cast a longing look back at the valley-land of Narnia and then turned  their faces to the North. The vast, lonely moor stretched on and up as far as they could  see. On their left was rockier ground. Jill thought that must be the edge of the giants'  gorge and did not much care about looking in that direction. They set out.  
It was good, springy ground for walking, and a day of pale winter sunlight. As they got  deeper into the moor, the loneliness increased: one could hear peewits and see an  occasional hawk. When they halted in the middle of the morning for a rest and a drink in  a little hollow by a stream, Jill was beginning to feel that she might enjoy adventures  after all, and said so.  
"We haven't had any yet," said the Marsh-wiggle.  
Walks after the first halt - like school mornings after break or railway journeys after  changing trains - never go on as they were before. When they set out again, Jill noticed  that the rocky edge of the gorge had drawn nearer. And the rocks were less flat, more  upright, than they had been. In fact they were like little towers of rock. And what funny  shapes they were!  
 
 "I do believe," thought Jill, "that all the stories about giants might have come from those  funny rocks. If you were coming along here when it was half dark, you could easily think  those piles of rock were giants. Look at that one, now! You could almost imagine that the  lump on top was a head. It would be rather too big for the body, but it would do well  enough for an ugly giant. And all that bushy stuff - I suppose it's heather and birds' nests,  really - would do quite well for hair and beard. And the things sticking out on each side  are quite like ears. They'd be horribly big, but then I dare say giants would have big ears,  like elephants. And - o-o-o-h! -"  
Her blood froze. The thing moved. It was a real giant. There was no mistaking it; she had  seen it turn its head. She had caught a glimpse of the great, stupid, puffcheeked face. All  the things were giants, not rocks. There were forty or fifty of them, all in a row;  obviously standing with their feet on the bottom of the gorge and their elbows resting on  the edge of the gorge, just as men might stand leaning on a wall - lazy men, on a fine  morning after breakfast.  
"Keep straight on," whispered Puddleglum, who had noticed them too. "Don't look at  them. And whatever you do, don't run. They'd be after us in a moment."  
So they kept on, pretending not to have seen the giants. It was like walking past the gate  of a house where there is a fierce dog, only far worse. There were dozens and dozens of  these giants. They didn't look angry - or kind or interested at all. There was no sign that  they had seen the travellers.  
Then - whizz-whizz-whizz - some heavy object came hurtling through the air, and with a  crash a big boulder fell about twenty paces ahead of them. And then - thud! - another fell  twenty feet behind.  
"Are they aiming at us?" asked Scrubb.  
"No," said Puddleglum. "We'd be a good deal safer if they were. They're trying to hit that  - that cairn over there to the right. They won't hit it, you know. It's safe enough; they're  such very bad shots. They play cock-shies most fine mornings. About the only game  they're clever enough to understand."  
It was a horrible time. There seemed no end to the line of giants, and they never ceased  hurling stones, some of which fell extremely close. Quite apart from the real danger, the  very sight and sound of their faces and voices were enough to scare anyone. Jill tried not  to look at them.  
After about twenty-five minutes the giants apparently had a quarrel. This put an end to  the cock-shies, but it is not pleasant to be within a mile of quarrelling giants. They  stormed and jeered at one another in long, meaningless words of about twenty syllables  each. They foamed and gibbered and jumped in their rage, and each jump shook the earth  like a bomb. They lammed each other on the head with great, clumsy stone hammers; but  their skulls were so hard that the hammers bounced off again, and then the monster who  
 
 had given the blow would drop his hammer and howl with pain because it had stung his  fingers. But he was so stupid that he would do exactly the same thing a minute later. This  was a good thing in the long run, for by the end of an hour all the giants were so hurt that  they sat down and began to cry. When they sat down, their heads were below the edge of  the gorge, so that you saw them no more; but Jill could hear them howling and  blubbering and boo-booing like great babies even after the place was a mile behind.  
That night they bivouacked on the bare moor, and Puddleglum showed the children how  to make the best of their blankets by sleeping back to back. (The backs keep each other  warm and you can then have both blankets on top.) But it was chilly even so, and the  ground was hard and lumpy. The Marsh-wiggle told them they would feel more  comfortable if only they thought how very much colder it would be later on and farther  north; but this didn't cheer them up at all.  
They travelled across Ettinsmoor for many days, saving the bacon and living chiefly on  the moor-fowl (they were not, of course, talking birds) which Eustace and the wiggle  shot. Jill rather envied Eustace for being able to shoot; he had learned it on his voyage  with King Caspian. As there were countless streams on the moor, they were never short  of water. Jill thought that when, in books, people live on what they shoot, it never tells  you what a long, smelly, messy job it is plucking and cleaning dead birds, and how cold it  makes your fingers. But the great thing was that they met hardly any giants. One giant  saw them, but he only roared with laughter and stumped away about his own business.  
About the tenth day, they reached a place where the country changed. They came to the  northern edge of the moor and looked down a long, steep slope into a different, and  grimmer, land. At the bottom of the slope were cliffs: beyond these, a country of high  mountains, dark precipices, stony valleys, ravines so deep and narrow that one could not  see far into them, and rivers that poured out of echoing gorges to plunge sullenly into  black depths. Needless to say, it was Puddleglum who pointed out a sprinkling of snow  on the more distant slopes.  
"But there'll be more on the north side of them, I shouldn't wonder," he added.  
It took them some time to reach the foot of the slope and, when they did, they looked  down from the top of the cliffs at a river running below them from west to east. It was  walled in by precipices on the far side as well as on their own, and it was green and  sunless, full of rapids and waterfalls. The roar of it shook the earth even where they  stood.  
"The bright side of it is," said Puddleglum, "that if we break our necks getting down the  cliff, then we're safe from being drowned in the river."  
"What about that?" said Scrubb suddenly, pointing upstream to their left. Then they all  looked and saw the last thing they were expecting - a bridge. And what a bridge, too! It  was a huge, single arch that spanned the gorge from cliff-top to cliff-top; and the crown  of that arch was as high above the cliff-tops as the dome of St Paul's is above the street.  
 
   
"Why, it must be a giants' bridge!" said Jill.  
"Or a sorcerer's, more likely," said Puddleglum. "We've got to look out for enchantments  in a place like this. I think it's a trap. I think it'll turn into mist and melt away just when  we're out on the middle of it."  
"Oh, for goodness' sake, don't be such a wet blanket," said Scrubb. "Why on earth  shouldn't it be a proper bridge?"  
"Do you think any of the giants we've seen would have sense to build a thing like that?"  said Puddleglum.  
"But mightn't it have been built by other giants?" said Jill. "I mean, by giants who lived  hundreds of years ago, and were far cleverer than the modern kind. It might have been  built by the same ones who built the giant city we're looking for. And that would mean  we were on the right track - the old bridge leading to the old city!"  
"That's a real brain-wave, Pole," said Scrubb. "It must be that. Come on."  
So they turned and went to the bridge. And when they reached it, it certainly seemed  solid enough. The single stones were as big as those at Stonehenge and must have been  squared by good masons once, though now they were cracked and crumbled. The  balustrade had apparently been covered with rich carvings, of which some traces  remained; mouldering faces and forms of giants, minotaurs, squids, centipedes, and  dreadful gods. Puddleglum still didn't trust it, but he consented to cross it with the  children.  
The climb up to the crown of the arch was long and heavy. In many places the great  stones had dropped out, leaving horrible gaps through which you looked down on the  river foaming thousands of feet below. They saw an eagle fly through under their feet.  And the higher they went, the colder it grew, and the wind blew so that they could hardly  keep their footing. It seemed to shake the bridge.  
When they reached the top and could look down the farther slope of the bridge, they saw  what looked like the remains of an ancient giant road stretching away before them into  the heart of the mountains. Many stones of its pavement were missing and there were  wide patches of grass between those that remained. And riding towards them on that  ancient road were two people of normal grown-up human size.  
"Keep on. Move towards them," said Puddleglum. "Anyone you meet in a place like this  is as likely as not to be an enemy, but we mustn't let them think we're afraid."  
By the time they had stepped off the end of the bridge on to the grass, the two strangers  were quite close. One was a knight in complete armour with his visor down. His armour  and his horse were black; there was no device on his shield and no banneret on his spear.  
 
 The other was a lady on a white horse, a horse so lovely that you wanted to kiss its nose  and give it a lump of sugar at once. But the lady, who rode side-saddle and wore a long,  fluttering dress of dazzling green, was lovelier still.  
"Good day, t-r-r-avellers," she cried out in a voice as sweet as the sweetest bird's song,  trilling her R's delightfully. "Some of you are young pilgrims to walk this rough waste."  
"That's as may be, Ma'am," said Puddleglum very stiffly and on his guard.  
"We're looking for the ruined city of the giants," said Jill.  
"The r-r-ruined city?" said the Lady. "That is a strange place to be seeking. What will you  do if you find it?"  
"We've got to -" began Jill, but Puddleglum interrupted.  
"Begging your pardon, Ma'am. But we don't know you or your friend - a silent chap, isn't  he? - and you don't know us. And we'd as soon not talk to strangers about our business, if  you don't mind. Shall we have a little rain soon, do you think?"  
The Lady laughed: the richest, most musical laugh you can imagine. "Well, children," she  said, "you have a wise, solemn old guide with you. I think none the worse of him for  keeping his own counsel, but I'll be free with mine. I have often heard the name of the  giantish City Ruinous, but never met any who would tell me the way thither. This road  leads to the burgh and castle of Harfang, where dwell the gentle giants. They are as mild,  civil, prudent, and courteous as those of Ettinsmoor are foolish, fierce, savage, and given  to all beastliness. And in Harfang you may or may not hear tidings of the City Ruinous,  but certainly you shall find good lodgings and merry hosts. You would be wise to winter  there, or, at the least, to tarry certain days for your ease and refreshment. There you shall  have steaming baths, soft beds, and bright hearths; and the roast and the baked and the  sweet and the strong will be on the table four times in a day."  
"I say!" exclaimed Scrubb. "That's something like! Think of sleeping in a bed again."  
"Yes, and having a hot bath," said Jill. "Do you think they'll ask us to stay? We don't  know them, you see."  
"Only tell them," answered the Lady, "that She of the Green Kirtle salutes them by you,  and has sent them two fair Southern children for the Autumn Feast."  
"Oh, thank you, thank you ever so much," said Jill and Scrubb.  
"But have a care," said the Lady. "On whatever day you reach Harfang, that you come  not to the door too late. For they shut their gates a few hours after noon, and it is the  custom of the castle that they open to none when once they have drawn bolt, how hard so  ever he knock."  
 
   
The children thanked her again, with shining eyes, and the Lady waved to them. The  Marsh-wiggle took off his steeple-hat and bowed very stiffly. Then the silent Knight and  the Lady started walking their horses up the slope of the bridge with a great clatter of  hoofs.  
"Well!" said Puddleglum. "I'd give a good deal to know where she's coming from and  where she's going. Not the sort you expect to meet in the wilds of Giantland, is she? Up  to no good, I'll be bound."  
"Oh rot!" said Scrubb. "I thought she was simply super. And think of hot meals and warm  rooms. I do hope Harfang isn't a long way off."  
"Same here," said Jill. "And hadn't she a scrumptious dress. And the horse!"  
"All the same," said Puddleglum, "I wish we knew a bit more about her."  
"I was going to ask her all about herself," said Jill. "But how could I when you wouldn't  tell her anything about us?"  
"Yes," said Scrubb. "And why were you so stiff and unpleasant. Didn't you like them?"  
"Them?" said the wiggle. "Who's them? I only saw one."  
"Didn't you see the Knight?" asked Jill.  
"I saw a suit of armour," said Puddleglum. "Why didn't he speak?"  
"I expect he was shy," said Jill. "Or perhaps he just wants to look at her and listen to her  lovely voice. I'm sure I would if I was him."  
"I was wondering," remarked Puddleglum, "what you'd really see if you lifted up the  visor of that helmet and looked inside."  
"Hang it all," said Scrubb. "Think of the shape of the armour! What could be inside it  except a man?"  
"How about a skeleton?" asked the Marsh-wiggle with ghastly cheerfulness. "Or  perhaps," he added as an afterthought, "nothing at all. I mean, nothing you could see.  Someone invisible."  
"Really, Puddleglum," said Jill with a shudder, "you do have the most horrible ideas.  How do you think of them all?"  
 
 "Oh, bother his ideas!" said Scrubb. "He's always expecting the worst, and he's always  wrong. Let's think about those Gentle Giants and get on to Harfang as quickly as we can.  I wish I knew how far it is."  
And now they nearly had the first of those quarrels which Puddleglum had foretold: not  that Jill and Scrubb hadn't been sparring and snapping at each other a good deal before,  but this was the first really serious disagreement. Puddleglum didn't want them to go to  Harfang at all. He said that he didn't know what a giant's idea of being "gentle" might be,  and that, anyway, Aslan's signs had said nothing about staying with giants, gentle or  otherwise. The children, on the other hand, who were sick of wind and rain, and skinny  fowl roasted over campfires, and hard, cold earth to sleep on, were absolutely dead set to  visit the Gentle Giants. In the end, Puddleglum agreed to do so, but only on one  condition. The others must give an absolute promise that, unless he gave them leave, they  would not tell the Gentle Giants that they came from Narnia or that they were looking for  Prince Rilian. And they gave him this promise, and went on.  
After that talk with the Lady things got worse in two different ways. In the first place the  country was much harder. The road led through endless, narrow valleys down which a  cruel north wind was always blowing in their faces. There was nothing that could be used  for firewood, and there were no nice little hollows to camp in, as there had been on the  moor. And the ground was all stony, and made your feet sore by day and every bit of you  sore by night.  
In the second place, whatever the Lady had intended by telling them about Harfang, the  actual effect on the children was a bad one. They could think about nothing but beds and  baths and hot meals and how lovely it would be to get indoors. They never talked about  Aslan, or even about the lost prince, now. And Jill gave up her habit of repeating the  signs over to herself every night and morning. She said to herself, at first, that she was  too tired, but she soon forgot all about it. And though you might have expected that the  idea of having a good time at Harfang would have made them more cheerful, it really  made them more sorry for themselves and more grumpy and snappy with each other and  with Puddleglum.  
At last they came one afternoon to a place where the gorge in which they were travelling  widened out and dark fir woods rose on either side. They looked ahead and saw that they  had come through the mountains. Before them lay a desolate, rocky plain: beyond it,  further mountains capped with snow. But between them and those further mountains rose  a low hill with an irregular flattish top.  
"Look! Look!" cried Jill, and pointed across the plain; and there, through the gathering  dusk, from beyond the flat hill, everyone saw lights. Lights! Not moonlight, nor fires, but  a homely cheering row of lighted windows. If you have never been in the wild  wilderness, day and night, for weeks, you will hardly understand how they felt.  
"Harfang!" cried Scrubb and Jill in glad, excited voices; and "Harfang," repeated  Puddleglum in a dull, gloomy voice. But he added, "Hullo! Wild geese!" and had the bow  
 
 off his shoulder in a second. He brought down a good fat goose. It was far too late to  think of reaching Harfang that day. But they had a hot meal and a fire, and started the  night warmer than they had been for over a week. After the fire had gone out, the night  grew bitterly cold, and when they woke next morning, their blankets were stiff with frost.  
"Never mind!" said Jill, stamping her feet. "Hot baths tonight!"  
  
  
CHAPTER SEVEN  
THE HILL OF THE STRANGE TRENCHES  
  
THERE Is no denying it was a beast of a day. Overhead was a sunless sky, muffled in  clouds that were heavy with snow; underfoot, a black frost; blowing over it, a wind that  felt as if it would take your skin off. When they got down into the plain they found that  this part of the ancient road was much more ruinous than any they had yet seen. They had  to pick their way over great broken stones and between boulders and across rubble: hard  going for sore feet. And, however tired they got, it was far too cold for a halt.  
At about ten o'clock the first tiny snow flakes came loitering down and settled on Jill's  arm. Ten minutes later they were falling quite thickly. In twenty minutes the ground was  noticeably white. And by the end of half an hour a good steady snowstorm, which looked  as if it meant to last all day, was driving in their faces so that they could hardly see.  
In order to understand what followed, you must keep on remembering how little they  could see. As they drew near the low hill which separated them from the place where the  lighted windows had appeared, they had no general view of it at all. It was a question of  seeing the next few paces ahead, and, even for that, you had to screw up your eyes.  Needless to say, they were not talking.  
When they reached the foot of the hill they caught a glimpse of what might be rocks on  each side - squarish rocks, if you looked at them carefully, but no one did. All were more  concerned with the ledge right in front of them which barred their way. It was about four  feet high. The Marsh-wiggle, with his long legs, had no difficulty in jumping onto the top  of it, and he then helped the others up. It was a nasty wet business for them, though not  for him, because the snow now lay quite deep on the ledge. They then had a stiff climb -  Jill fell once - up very rough ground for about a hundred yards, and came to a second  ledge. There were four of these ledges altogether, at quite irregular intervals.  
As they struggled on to the fourth ledge, there was no mistaking the fact that they were  now at the top of the flat hill. Up till now the slope had given them some shelter; here,  they got the full fury of the wind. For the hill, oddly enough, was quite as flat on top as it  had looked from a distance: a great level tableland which the storm tore across without  
 
 resistance. In most places the snow was still hardly lying at all, for the wind kept catching  it up off the ground in sheets and clouds, and hurling it in their faces. And round their feet  little eddies of snow ran about as you sometimes see them doing over ice. And, indeed, in  many places, the surface was almost as smooth as ice. But to make matters worse it was  crossed and crisscrossed with curious banks or dykes, which sometimes divided it up into  squares and oblongs. All these of course had to be climbed; they varied from two to five  feet in height and were about a couple of yards thick. On the north side of each bank the  snow already lay in deep drifts; and after each climb you came down into a drift and got  wet.  
Fighting her way forward with hood up and head down and numb hands inside her cloak,  Jill had glimpses of other odd things on that horrible tableland - things on her right that  looked vaguely like factory chimneys, and, on her left, a huge cliff, straighter than any  cliff ought to be. But she wasn't at all interested and didn't give them a thought. The only  things she thought about were her cold hands (and nose and chin and ears) and hot baths  and beds at Harfang.  
Suddenly she skidded, slid about five feet, and found herself to her horror sliding down  into a dark, narrow chasm which seemed that moment to have appeared in front of her.  Half a second later she had reached the bottom. She appeared to be in a kind of trench or  groove, only about three feet wide. And though she was shaken by the fall, almost the  first thing she noticed was the relief of being out of the wind; for the walls of the trench  rose high above her. The next thing she noticed was, naturally, the anxious faces of  Scrubb and Puddleglum looking down at her from the edge.  
"Are you hurt, Pole?" shouted Scrubb.  
"Both legs broken, I shouldn't wonder," shouted Puddleglum.  
Jill stood up and explained that she was all right, but they'd have to help her out.  
"What is it you've fallen into?" asked Scrubb.  
"It's a kind of trench, or it might be a kind of sunken lane or something," said Jill. "It runs  quite straight."  
"Yes, by Jove," said Scrubb. "And it runs due north! I wonder is it a sort of road? If it  was, we'd be out of this infernal wind down there. Is there a lot of snow at the bottom?"  
"Hardly any. It all blows over the top, I suppose."  
"What happens farther on?"  
"Half a sec. I'll go and see," said Jill. She got up and walked along the trench; but before  she had gone far, it turned sharply to the right. She shouted this information back to the  others.  
 
   
"What's round the corner?" asked Scrubb.  
Now it happened that Jill had the same feeling about twisty passages and dark places  underground, or even nearly underground, that Scrubb had about the edges of cliffs. She  had no intention of going round that corner alone; especially when she heard Puddleglum  bawling out from behind her:  
"Be careful, Pole. It's just the sort of place that might lead to a dragon's cave. And in a  giant country, there might be giant earth-worms or giant beetles."  
"I don't think it goes anywhere much," said Jill, coming hastily back.  
"I'm jolly well going to have a look," said Scrubb. "What do you mean by anywhere  much, I should like to know?" So he sat down on the edge of the trench (everyone was  too wet by now to bother about being a bit wetter) and then dropped in. He pushed past  Jill and, though he didn't say anything, she felt sure that he knew she had funked it. So  she followed him close, but took care not to get in front of him.  
It proved, however, a disappointing exploration. They went round the right-hand turn and  straight on for a few paces. Here there was a choice of ways: straight on again, or sharp to  the right. "That's no good," said Scrubb, glancing down the right-hand turn, "that would  be taking us back - south." He went straight on, but once more, in a few steps, they found  a second turn to the right. But this time there was no choice of ways, for the trench they  had been following here came to a dead end.  
"No good," grunted Scrubb. Jill lost no time in turning and leading the way back. When  they returned to the place where Jill had first fallen in, the Marsh-wiggle with his long  arms had no difficulty in pulling them out.  
But it was dreadful to be out on top again. Down in those narrow slits of trenches, their  ears had almost begun to thaw. They had been able to see clearly and breathe easily and  hear each other speak without shouting. It was absolute misery to come back into the  withering coldness. And it did seem hard when Puddleglum chose that moment for  saying:  
"Are you still sure of those signs, Pole? What's the one we ought to be after, now?"  
"Oh, come on! Bother the signs," said Pole. "Something about someone mentioning  Aslan's name, I think. But I'm jolly well not going to give a recitation here."  
As you see, she had got the order wrong. That was because she had given up saying the  signs over every night. She still really knew them, if she troubled to think: but she was no  longer so "pat" in her lesson as to be sure of reeling them off in the right order at a  moment's notice and without thinking. Puddleglum's question annoyed her because, deep  down inside her, she was already annoyed with herself for not knowing the Lion's lesson  
 
 quite so well as she felt she ought to have known it. This annoyance, added to the misery  of being very cold and tired, made her say, "Bother the signs." She didn't perhaps quite  mean it.  
"Oh, that was next, was it?" said Puddleglum. "Now I wonder, are you right? Got 'em  mixed, I shouldn't wonder. It seems to me, this hill, this flat place we're on, is worth  stopping to have a look at. Have you noticed -"  
"Oh Lor!" said Scrubb, "is this a time for stopping to admire the view? For goodness'  sake let's get on."  
"Oh, look, look, look," cried Jill and pointed. Everyone turned, and everyone saw. Some  way off to the north, and a good deal higher up than the tableland on which they stood, a  line of lights had appeared. This time, even more obviously than when the travellers had  seen them the night before, they were windows: smaller windows that made one think  deliciously of bedrooms, and larger windows that made one think of great halls with fires  roaring on the hearth and hot soup or juicy sirloins smoking on the table.  
"Harfang!" exclaimed Scrubb.  
"That's all very well," said Puddleglum. "But what I was saying was -"  
"Oh, shut up," said Jill crossly. "We haven't a moment to lose. Don't you remember what  the Lady said about their locking up so early? We must get there in time, we must, we  must. We'll die if we're shut out on a night like this."  
"Well, it isn't exactly a night, not yet," began Puddleglum; but the two children both said,  "Come on," and began stumbling forward on the slippery tableland as quickly as their  legs would carry them. The Marsh-wiggle followed them: still talking, but now that they  were forcing their way into the wind again, they could not have heard him even if they  had wanted to. And they didn't want. They were thinking of baths and beds and hot  drinks; and the idea of coming to Harfang too late and being shut out was almost  unbearable.  
In spite of their haste, it took them a long time to cross the flat top of that hill. And even  when they had crossed it, there were still several ledges to climb down on the far side.  But at last they reached the bottom and could see what Harfang was like.  
It stood on a high crag, and in spite of its many towers was more a huge house than a  castle. Obviously, the Gentle Giants feared no attack. There were windows in the outside  wall quite close to the ground - a thing no one would have in a serious fortress. There  were even odd little doors here and there, so that it would be quite easy to get in and out  of the castle without going through the courtyard. This raised the spirits of Jill and  Scrubb. It made the whole place look more friendly and less forbidding.  
 
 At first the height and steepness of the crag frightened them, but presently they noticed  that there was an easier way up on the left and that the road wound up towards it. It was a  terrible climb, after the journey they had already had, and Jill nearly gave up. Scrubb and  Puddleglum had to help her for the last hundred yards.  
But in the end they stood before the castle gate. The portcullis was up and the gate open.  
However tired you are, it takes some nerve to walk up to a giant's front door. In spite of  all his previous warnings against Harfang, it was Puddleglum who showed most courage.  
"Steady pace, now," he said. "Don't look frightened, whatever you do. We've done the  silliest thing in the world by coming at all: but now that we are here, we'd best put a bold  face on it."  
With these words he strode forward into the gateway, stood still under the arch where the  echo would help his voice, and called out as loud as he could.  
"Ho! Porter! Guests who seek lodging."  
And while he was waiting for something to happen, he took off his hat and knocked off  the heavy mass of snow which had gathered on its wide brim.  
"I say," whispered Scrubb to Jill. "He may be a wet blanket, but he has plenty of pluck -  and cheek."  
A door opened, letting out a delicious glow of firelight, and the Porter appeared. Jill bit  her lips for fear she should scream. He was not a perfectly enormous giant; that is to say,  he was rather taller than an apple tree but nothing like so tall as a telegraph pole. He had  bristly red hair, a leather jerkin with metal plates fastened all over it so as to make a kind  of mail shirt, bare knees (very hairy indeed) and things like puttees on his legs. He  stooped down and goggled at Puddleglum.  
"And what sort of creature do you call yourself," he said.  
Jill took her courage in both hands. "Please," she said, shouting up at the giant. "The  Lady of the Green Kirtle salutes the King of the Gentle Giants, and has sent us two  Southern children and this Marsh-wiggle (his name's Puddleglum) to your Autumn Feast.  - If it's quite convenient, of course," she added.  
"Oho!" said the Porter. "That's quite a different story. Come in, little people, come in.  You'd best come into the lodge while I'm sending word to his Majesty." He looked at the  children with curiosity. "Blue faces," he said. "I didn't know they. were that colour. Don't  care about it myself. But I dare say you look quite nice to one another. Beetles fancy  other beetles, they do say."  
"Our faces are only blue with cold," said Jill. "We're not this colour really."  
 
   
"Then come in and get warm. Come in, little shrimps," said the Porter. They followed  him into the lodge. And though it was rather terrible to hear such a big door clang shut  behind them, they forgot about it as soon as they saw the thing they had been longing for  ever since supper time last night - afire. And such a fire! It looked as if four or five whole  trees were blazing on it, and it was so hot they couldn't go within yards of it. But they all  flopped down on the brick floor, as near as they could bear the heat, and heaved great  sighs of relief.  
"Now, youngster," said the Porter to another giant who had been sitting in the back of the  room, staring at the visitors till it looked as if his eyes would start out of his head, "run  across with this message to the House." And he repeated what Jill had said to him. The  younger giant, after a final stare, and a great guffaw, left the room.  
"Now, Froggy," said the Porter to Puddleglum, "you look as if you wanted some cheering  up." He produced a black bottle very like Puddleglum's own, but about twenty times  larger. "Let me see, let me see," said the Porter. "I can't give you a cup or you'll drown  yourself. Let me see. This salt-cellar will be just the thing. You  
needn't mention it over at the House. The silver will keep on getting over here, and it's  not my fault."  
The salt-cellar was not very like one of ours, being narrower and more upright, and made  quite a good cup for Puddleglum, when the giant set it down on the floor beside him. The  children expected Puddleglum to refuse it, distrusting the Gentle Giants as he did. But he  muttered, "It's rather late to be thinking of precautions now that we're inside and the door  shut behind us." Then he sniffed at the liquor. "Smells all right," he said. "But that's  nothing to go by. Better make sure," and took a sip. "Tastes all right, too," he said. "But it  might do that at the first sip. How does it go on?" He took a larger sip. "Ah!" he said.  "But is it the same all the way down?" and took another. "There'll be something nasty at  the bottom, I shouldn't wonder," he said, and finished the drink. He licked his lips and  remarked to the children, "This'll be a test, you see. If I curl up, or burst, or turn into a  lizard, or something, then you'll know not to take anything they offer you." But the giant,  who was too far up to hear the things Puddleglum had been saying under his breath,  roared with laughter and said, "Why, Froggy, you're a man. See him put it away!"  
"Not a man . . . Marsh-wiggle," replied Puddleglum in a somewhat indistinct voice. "Not  frog either: Marshwiggle."  
At that moment the door opened behind them and the younger giant came in saying,  "They're to go to the throne-room at once."  
The children stood up but Puddleglum remained sitting and said, "Marsh-wiggle. Marsh- wiggle. Very respectable Marsh-wiggle. Respectowiggle."  
"Show them the way, young 'un," said the giant Porter. "You'd better carry Froggy. He's  had a drop more than's good for him."  
 
   
"Nothing wrong with me," said Puddleglum. "Not a frog. Nothing frog with me. I'm a  respectabiggle."  
But the young giant caught him up by the waist and signed to the children to follow. In  this undignified way they crossed the courtyard. Puddleglum, held in the giant's fist, and  vaguely kicking the air, did certainly look very like a frog. But they had little time to  notice this, for they soon entered the great doorway of the main castle - both their hearts  beating faster than usual - and, after pattering along several corridors at a trot to keep up  with the giant's paces, found themselves blinking in the light of an enormous room,  where lamps glowed and a fire roared on the hearth and both were reflected from the  gilding of roof and cornice. More giants than they could count stood on their left and  right, all in magnificent robes; and on two thrones at the far end, sat two huge shapes that  appeared to be the King and Queen.  
About twenty feet from the thrones, they stopped. Scrubb and Jill made an awkward  attempt at a bow (girls are not taught how to curtsey at Experiment House) and the young  giant carefully put Puddleglum down on the floor, where he collapsed into a sort of  sitting position. With his long limbs he looked, to tell the truth, uncommonly like a large  spider.  
  
  
CHAPTER EIGHT  
THE HOUSE OF HARFANG  
"Go on, Pole, do your stuff," whispered Scrubb.  
Jill found that her mouth was so dry that she couldn't speak a word. She nodded savagely  at Scrubb.  
Thinking to himself that he would never forgive her (or Puddleglum either), Scrubb  licked his lips and shouted up to the King giant.  
"If you please, Sire, the Lady of the Green Kirtle salutes you by us and said you'd like to  have us for your Autumn Feast."  
The giant King and Queen looked at each other, nodded to each other, and smiled in a  way that Jill didn't exactly like. She liked the King better than the Queen. He had a fine,  curled beard and a straight eagle-like nose, and was really rather good-looking as giants  go. The Queen was dreadfully fat and had a double chin and a fat, powdered face - which  isn't a very nice thing at the best of times, and of course looks much worse when it is ten  times too big. Then the King put out his tongue and licked his lips. Anyone might do that:  
 
 but his tongue was so very large and red, and came out so unexpectedly, that it gave Jill  quite a shock.  
"Oh, what good children!" said the Queen. ("Perhaps she's the nice one after all," thought  Jill.)  
"Yes indeed," said the King. "Quite excellent children. We welcome you to our court.  Give me your hands."  
He stretched down his great right hand - very clean and with any number of rings on the  fingers, but also with terrible pointed nails. He was much too big to shake the hands  which the children, in turn, held up to him; but he shook the arms.  
"And what's that?" asked the King, pointing to Puddleglum.  
"Reshpeckobiggle," said Puddleglum.  
"Oh!" screamed the Queen, gathering her skirts close about her ankles. "The horrid thing!  It's alive."  
"He's quite all right, your Majesty, really, he is," said Scrubb hastily. "You'll like him  much better when you get to know him. I'm sure you will."  
I hope you won't lose all interest in Jill for the rest of the book if I tell you that at this  moment she began to cry. There was a good deal of excuse for her. Her feet and hands  and ears and nose were still only just beginning to thaw; melted snow was trickling off  her clothes; she had had hardly anything to eat or drink that day; and her legs were aching  so that she felt she could not go on standing much longer. Anyway, it did more good at  the moment than anything else would have done, for the Queen said:  
"Ah, the poor child! My lord, we do wrong to keep our guests standing. Quick, some of  you! Take them away. Give them food and wine and baths. Comfort the little girl. Give  her lollipops, give her dolls, give her physics, give her all you can think of - possets and  comfits and caraways and lullabies and toys. Don't cry, little girl, or you won't be good  for anything when the feast comes."  
Jill was just as indignant as you and I would have been at the mention of toys and dolls;  and, though lollipops and comfits might be all very well in their way, she very much  hoped that something more solid would be provided. The Queen's foolish speech,  however, produced excellent results, for Puddleglum and Scrubb were at once picked up  by gigantic gentlemen-in-waiting, and Jill by a gigantic maid of honour, and carried off to  their rooms.  
Jill's room was about the size of a church, and would have been rather grim if it had not  had a roaring fire on the hearth and a very thick crimson carpet on the floor. And here  delightful things began to happen to her. She was handed over to the Queen's old Nurse,  
 
 who was, from the giants' point of view, a little old woman almost bent double with age,  and, from the human point of view, a giantess small enough to go about an ordinary room  without knocking her head on the ceiling. She was very capable, though Jill did wish she  wouldn't keep on clicking her tongue and saying things like "Oh la, la! Ups-adaisy" and  "There's a duck" and "Now we'll be all right, my poppet". She filled a giant foot-bath  with hot water and helped Jill into it. If you can swim (as Jill could) a giant bath is a  lovely thing. And giant towels, though a bit rough and coarse, are lovely too, because  there are acres of them. In fact you don't need to dry at all, you just roll about on them in  front of the fire and enjoy yourself. And when that was over, clean, fresh, warmed clothes  were put on Jill: very splendid clothes and a little too big for her, but clearly made for  humans not giantesses. "I suppose if that woman in the green kirtle comes here, they must  be used to guests of our size," thought Jill.  
She soon saw that she was right about this, for a table and chair of the right height for an  ordinary grown-up human were placed for her, and the knives and forks and spoons were  the proper size too. It was delightful to sit down, feeling warm and clean at last. Her feet  were still bare and it was lovely to tread on the giant carpet. She sank in it well over her  ankles and it was just the thing for sore feet. The meal - which I suppose we must call  dinner, though it was nearer tea time - was cock-a-leekie soup, and hot roast turkey, and a  steamed pudding, and roast chestnuts, and as much fruit as you could eat.  
The only annoying thing was that the Nurse kept coming in and out, and every time she  came in, she brought a gigantic toy with her - a huge doll, bigger than Jill herself, a  wooden horse on wheels, about the size of an elephant, a drum that looked like a young  gasometer, and a woolly lamb. They were crude, badly made things, painted in very  bright colours, and Jill hated the sight of them. She kept on telling the Nurse she didn't  want them, but the Nurse said:  
"Tut-tut-tut-tut. You'll want 'em all right when you've had a bit of a rest, I know! Te-he- he! Beddy bye, now. A precious poppet!"  
The bed was not a giant bed but only a big four-poster, like what you might see in an old- fashioned hotel; and very small it looked in that enormous room. She was very glad to  tumble into it.  
"Is it still snowing, Nurse?" she asked sleepily.  
"No. Raining now, ducky!" said the giantess. "Rain'll wash away all the nasty snow.  Precious poppet will be able to go out and play tomorrow!" And she tucked Jill up and  said good night.  
I know nothing so disagreeable as being kissed by a giantess. Jill thought the same, but  was asleep in five minutes.  
The rain fell steadily all the evening and all the night, dashing against the windows of the  castle, and Jill never heard it but slept deeply, past supper time and past midnight. And  
 
 then came the deadest hour of the night and nothing stirred but mice in the house of the  giants. At that hour there came to Jill a dream. It seemed to her that she awoke in the  same room and saw the fire, sunk low and red, and in the firelight the great wooden  horse. And the horse came of its own will, rolling on its wheels across the carpet, and  stood at her head. And now it was no longer a horse, but a lion as big as the horse. And  then it was not a toy lion, but a real lion, The Real Lion, just as she had seen him on the  mountain beyond the world's end. And a smell of all sweet-smelling things there are  filled the room. But there was some trouble in Jill's mind, though she could not think  what it was, and the tears streamed down her face and wet the pillow. The Lion told her  to repeat the signs, and she found that she had forgotten them all. At that, a great horror  came over her. And Aslan took her up in his jaws (she could feel his lips and his breath  but not his teeth) and carried her to the window and made her look out. The moon shone  bright; and written in great letters across the world or the sky (she did not know which)  were the words UNDER ME. After that, the dream faded away, and when she woke, very  late next morning, she did not remember that she had dreamed at all.  
She was up and dressed and had finished breakfast in front of the fire when the Nurse  opened the door and said: "Here's pretty poppet's little friends come to play with her."  
In came Scrubb and the Marsh-wiggle.  
"Hullo! Good morning," said Jill. "Isn't this fun? I've slept about fifteen hours, I believe. I  do feel better, don't you?"  
"1 do," said Scrubb, "but Puddleglum says he has a headache. Hullo! - your window has a  window seat. If we got up on that, we could see out." And at once they all did so: and at  the first glance Jill said, "Oh, how perfectly dreadful!"  
The sun was shining and, except for a few drifts, the snow had been almost completely  washed away by the rain. Down below them, spread out like a map, lay the flat hill-top  which they had struggled over yesterday afternoon; seen from the castle, it could not be  mistaken for anything but the ruins of a gigantic city. It had been flat, as Jill now saw,  because it was still, on the whole, paved, though in places the pavement was broken. The  criss-cross banks were what was left of the walls of huge buildings which might once  have been giants' palaces and temples. One bit of wall, about five hundred feet high, was  still standing; it was that which she had thought was a cliff. The things that had looked  like factory chimneys were enormous pillars, broken off at unequal heights; their  fragments lay at their bases like felled trees of monstrous stone. The ledges which they  had climbed down on the north side of the hill - and also, no doubt the other ledges which  they had climbed up on the south side - were the remaining steps of giant stairs. To crown  all, in large, dark lettering across the centre of the pavement, ran the words UNDER ME.  
The three travellers looked at each other in dismay, and, after a short whistle, Scrubb said  what they were all thinking, "The second and third signs muffed." And at that moment  Jill's dream rushed back into her mind.  
 
 "It's my fault," she said in despairing tones. "I - I'd given up repeating the signs every  night. If I'd been thinking about them I could have seen it was the city, even in all that  snow."  
"I'm worse," said Puddleglum. "I did see, or nearly. I thought it looked uncommonly like  a ruined city."  
"You're the only one who isn't to blame," said Scrubb. "You did try to make us stop."  
"Didn't try hard enough, though," said the Marshwiggle. "And I'd no call to be trying. I  ought to have done it. As if I couldn't have stopped you two with one hand each!"  
"The truth is," said Scrubb, "we were so jolly keen on getting to this place that we weren't  bothering about anything else. At least I know I was. Ever since we met that woman with  the knight who didn't talk, we've been thinking of nothing else. We'd nearly forgotten  about Prince Rilian."  
"I shouldn't wonder," said Puddleglum, "if that wasn't exactly what she intended."  
"What I don't quite understand," said Jill, "is how we didn't see the lettering? Or could it  have come there since last night. Could he - Aslan - have put it there in the night? I had  such a queer dream." And she told them all about it.  
"Why, you chump!" said Scrubb. "We did see it. We got into the lettering. Don't you see?  We got into the letter E in ME. That was your sunk lane. We walked along the bottom  stroke of the E, due north - turned to our right along the upright - came to another turn to  the right - that's the middle stroke - and then went on to the top left-hand corner, or (if  you like) the north-eastern corner of the letter, and came back. Like the bally idiots we  are." He kicked the window seat savagely, and went on, "So it's no good, Pole. I know  what you were thinking because I was thinking the same. You were thinking how nice it  would have been if Aslan hadn't put the instructions on the stones of the ruined city till  after we'd passed it. And then it would have been his fault, not ours. So likely, isn't it?  No. We must just own up. We've only four signs to go by, and we've muffed the first  three."  
"You mean I have," said Jill. "It's quite true. I've spoiled everything ever since you  brought me here. All the same - I'm frightfully sorry and all that - all the same, what are  the instructions? UNDER ME doesn't seem to make much sense."  
"Yes it does, though," said Puddleglum. "It means we've got to look for the Prince under  that city."  
"But how can we?" asked Jill.  
"That's the question," said Puddleglum, rubbing his big, frog-like hands together. "How  can we now? No doubt, if we'd had our minds on our job when we were at the Ruinous  
 
 City, we'd have been shown how - found a little door, or a cave, or a tunnel, met someone  to help us. Might have been (you never know) Aslan himself. We'd have got down under  those paving-stones somehow or other. Aslan's instructions always work: there are no  exceptions. But how to do it now - that's another matter."  
"Well, we shall just have to go back, I suppose," said Jill.  
"Easy, isn't it?" said Puddleglum. "We might try opening that door to begin with." And  they all looked at the door and saw that none of them could reach the handle, and that  almost certainly no one could turn it if they did.  
"Do you think they won't let us out if we ask?" said Jill. And nobody said, but everyone  thought, "Supposing they don't."  
It was not a pleasant idea. Puddleglum was dead against any idea of telling the giants  their real business and simply asking to be let out; and of course the children couldn't tell  without his permission, because they had promised. And all three felt pretty sure that  there would be no chance of escaping from the castle by night. Once they were in their  rooms with the doors shut, they would be prisoners till morning. They might, of course,  ask to have their doors left open, but that would rouse suspicions.  
"Our only chance," said Scrubb, "is to try to sneak away by daylight. Mightn't there be an  hour in the afternoon when most of the giants are asleep? - and if we could steal down  into the kitchen, mightn't there be a back door open?"  
"It's hardly what I call a Chance," said the Marshwiggle. "But it's all the chance we're  likely to get." As a matter of fact, Scrubb's plan was not quite so hopeless as you might  think. If you want to get out of a house without being seen, the middle of the afternoon is  in some ways a better time to try it than the middle of the night. Doors and windows are  more likely to be open; and if you are caught, you can always pretend you weren't  meaning to go far and had no particular plans. (It is very hard to make either giants or  grown-ups believe this if you're found climbing out of a bedroom window at one o'clock  in the morning.)  
"We must put them off their guard, though," said Scrubb. "We must pretend we love  being here and are longing for this Autumn Feast."  
"That's tomorrow night," said Puddleglum. "I heard one of them say so."  
"I see," said Jill. "We must pretend to be awfully excited about it, and keep on asking  questions. They think we're absolute infants anyway, which will make it easier."  
"Gay," said Puddleglum with a deep sigh. "That's what we've got to be. Gay. As if we  hadn't a care in the world. Frolicsome. You two youngsters haven't always got very high  spirits, I've noticed. You must watch me, and do as I do. I'll be gay. Like this" - and he  assumed a ghastly grin. "And frolicsome" - here he cut a most mournful caper. "You'll  
 
 soon get into it, if you keep your eyes on me. They think I'm a funny fellow already, you  see. I dare say you two thought I was a trifle tipsy last night, but I do assure you it was -  well, most of it was - put on. I had an idea it would come in useful, somehow."  
The children, when they talked over their adventures afterwards, could never feel sure  whether this last statement was quite strictly true; but they were sure that Puddleglum  thought it was true when he made it.  
"All right. Gay's the word," said Scrubb. "Now, if we could only get someone to open  this door. While we're fooling about and being gay, we've got to find out all we can about  this castle."  
Luckily, at that very moment the door opened, and the giant Nurse bustled in saying,  "Now, my poppets. Like to come and see the King and all the court setting out on the  hunting? Such a pretty sight!"  
They lost no time in rushing out past her and climbing down the first staircase they came  to. The noise of hounds and horns and giant voices guided them, so that in a few minutes  they reached the courtyard. The giants were all on foot, for there are no giant horses in  that part of the world, and the giants' hunting is done on foot; like beagling in England.  The hounds were also of normal size. When Jill saw that there were no horses she was at  first dreadfully disappointed, for she felt sure that the great fat Queen would never go  after hounds on foot; and it would never do to have her about the house all day. But then  she saw the Queen in a kind of litter supported on the shoulders of six young giants. The  silly old creature was all got up in green and had a horn at her side.  
Twenty or thirty giants, including the King, were assembled, ready for the sport, all  talking and laughing fit to deafen you: and down below, nearer Jill's level, there were  wagging tails, and barking, and loose, slobbery mouths and noses of dogs thrust into your  hand. Puddleglum was just beginning to strike what he thought a gay and gamesome  attitude (which might have spoiled everything if it had been noticed) when Jill put on her  most attractively childish smile, rushed across to the Queen's litter and shouted up to the  Queen.  
"Oh, please! You're not going away, are you? You will come back?"  
"Yes, my dear," said the Queen. "I'll be back tonight."  
"Oh, good. How lovely!" said Jill. "And we may come to the feast tomorrow night,  mayn't we? We're so longing for tomorrow night! And we do love being here. And while  you're out, we may run over the whole castle and see everything, mayn't we? Do say  yes."  
The Queen did say yes, but the laughter of all the courtiers nearly drowned her voice.  
  
 
   
CHAPTER NINE  
HOW THEY DISCOVERED SOMETHING WORTH KNOWING  
  
THE others admitted afterwards that Jill had been wonderful that day. As soon as the  King and the rest of the hunting party had set off, she began making a tour of the whole  castle and asking questions, but all in such an innocent, babyish way that no one could  suspect her of any secret design. Though her tongue was never still, you could hardly say  she talked: she prattled and giggled. She made love to everyone - the grooms, the porters,  the housemaids, the ladies-in-waiting, and the elderly giant lords whose hunting days  were past. She submitted to being kissed and pawed about by any number of giantesses,  many of whom seemed sorry for her and called her "a poor little thing" though none of  them explained why. She made especial friends with the cook and discovered the all- important fact there was a scullery door which let you out through the outer wall, so that  you did not have to cross the courtyard or pass the great gatehouse. In the kitchen she  pretended to be greedy, and ate all sorts of scraps which the cook and scullions delighted  to give her. But upstairs among the ladies she asked questions about how she would be  dressed for the great feast, and how long she would be allowed to sit up, and whether she  would dance with some very, very small giant. And then (it made her hot all over when  she remembered it afterwards) she would put her head on one side in an idiotic fashion  which grown-ups, giant and otherwise, thought very fetching, and shake her curls, and  fidget, and say, "Oh, I do wish it was tomorrow night, don't you? Do you think the time  will go quickly till then?" And all the giantesses said she was a perfect little darling; and  some of them dabbed their eyes with enormous handkerchiefs as if they were going to  cry.  
"They're dear little things at that age," said one giantess to another. "It seems almost a  pity . . ."  
Scrubb and Puddleglum both did their best, but girls do that kind of thing better than  boys. Even boys do it better than Marsh-wiggles.  
At lunchtime something happened which made all three of them more anxious than ever  to leave the castle of the Gentle Giants. They had lunch in the great hall at a little table of  their own, near the fireplace. At a bigger table, about twenty yards away, half a dozen old  giants were lunching. Their conversation was so noisy, and so high up in the air, that the  children soon took no more notice of it than you would of hooters outside the window or  traffic noises in the street. They were eating cold venison, a kind of food which Jill had  never tasted before, and she was liking it.  
Suddenly Puddleglum turned to them, and his face had gone so pale that you could see  the paleness under the natural muddiness of his complexion. He said:  
 
 "Don't eat another bite."  
"What's wrong?" asked the other two in a whisper.  
"Didn't you hear what those giants were saying? `That's a nice tender haunch of venison,'  said one of them. `Then that stag was a liar,' said another. `Why?' said the first one. `Oh,'  said the other. `They say that when he was caught he said, Don't kill me, I'm tough. You  won't like me.'" For a moment Jill did not realize the full meaning of this. But she did  when Scrubb's eyes opened wide with horror and he said:  
"So we've been eating a Talking stag."  
This discovery didn't have exactly the same effect on all of them. Jill, who was new to  that world, was sorry for the poor stag and thought it rotten of the giants to have killed  him. Scrubb, who had been in that world before and had at least one Talking beast as his  dear friend, felt horrified; as you might feel about a murder. But Puddleglum, who was  Narnian born, was sick and faint, and felt as you would feel if you found you had eaten a  baby.  
"We've brought the anger of Aslan on us," he said. "That's what comes of not attending to  the signs. We're under a curse, I expect. If it was allowed, it would be the best thing we  could do, to take these knives and drive them into our own hearts."  
And gradually even Jill came to see it from his point of view. At any rate, none of them  wanted any more lunch. And as soon as they thought it safe they crept quietly out of the  hall.  
It was now drawing near to that time of the day on which their hopes of escape depended,  and all became nervous. They hung about in passages and waited for things to become  quiet. The giants in the hall sat on a dreadfully long time after the meal was over. The  bald one was telling a story. When that was over, the three travellers dawdled down to the  kitchen. But there were still plenty of giants there, or at least in the scullery, washing up  and putting things away. It was agonizing, waiting till these finished their jobs and, one  by one, wiped their hands and went away. At last only one old giantess was left in the  room. She pottered about, and pottered about, and at last the three travellers realized with  horror that she did not intend to go away at all.
"Well, dearies," she said to them. "That job's about through. Let's put the kettle there.  That'll make a nice cup of tea presently. Now I can have a little bit of a rest. Just look into  the scullery, like good poppets, and tell me if the back door is open."  
"Yes, it is," said Scrubb.  
"That's right. I always leave it open so as Puss can get in and out, the poor thing."  
 
 Then she sat down on one chair and put her feet up on another.  
"I don't know as I mightn't have forty winks," said the giantess. "If only that blarney  hunting party doesn't come back too soon."  
All their spirits leaped up when she mentioned forty winks, and flopped down again  when she mentioned the return of the hunting party.  
"When do they usually comeback?" asked Jill.  
"You never can tell," said the giantess. "But there; go and be quiet for a bit, my dearies."  
They retreated to the far end of the kitchen, and would have slipped out into the scullery  there and then if the giantess had not sat up, opened her eyes, and brushed away a fly.  "Don't try it till we're sure she's really asleep," whispered Scrubb. "Or it'll spoil  everything." So they all huddled at the kitchen end, waiting and watching. The thought  that the hunters might come back at any moment was terrible. And the giantess was  fidgety. Whenever they thought she had really gone to sleep, she moved.  
"I can't bear this," thought Jill. To distract her mind, she began looking about her. Just in  front of her was a clean wide table with two clean pie-dishes on it, and an open book.  They were giant pie-dishes of course. Jill thought that she could lie down just  comfortably in one of them. Then she climbed up on the bench beside the table to look at  the book. She read:  
MALLARD. This delicious bird can be cooked in a variety of ways.  
"It's a cookery book," thought Jill without much interest, and glanced over her shoulder.  The giantess's eyes were shut but she didn't look as if she were properly asleep. Jill  glanced back at the book. It was arranged alphabetically: and at the very next entry her  heart seemed to stop beating; It ran  
MAN. This elegant little biped has long been valued as a delicacy. It forms a traditional  part of the Autumn Feast, and is served between the fish and the joint. Each Man...  
but she could not bear to read any more. She turned round. The giantess had wakened up  and was having a fit of coughing. Jill nudged the other two and pointed to the book. They  also mounted the bench and bent over the huge pages. Scrubb was still reading about how  to cook Men when Puddleglum pointed to the next entry below it. It was like this:  
MARSH-WIGGLE. Some authorities reject this animal altogether as unfit for giants'  consumption because of its stringy consistency and muddy flavour. The flavour can,  however, be greatly reduced if-  
Jill touched his feet, and Scrubb's, gently. All three looked back at the giantess. Her  mouth was slightly open and from her nose there came a sound which at that moment was  
 
 more welcome to them than any music; she snored. And now it was a question of tiptoe  work, not daring to go too fast, hardly daring to breathe, out through the scullery (giant  sculleries smell horrid), out at last into the pale sunlight of a winter afternoon.  
They were at the top of a rough little path which ran steeply down. And, thank heavens,  on the right side of the castle; the City Ruinous was in sight. In a few minutes they were  back on the broad, steep road which led down from the main gate of the castle. They  were also in full view from every single window on that side. If it had been one, or two,  or five windows there'd be a reasonable chance that no one might be looking out. But  there were nearer fifty than five. They now realized, too, that the road on which they  were, and indeed all the ground between them and the City Ruinous, didn't offer as much  cover as would hide a fox; it was all coarse grass and pebbles and flat stones. To make  matters worse, they were now in the clothes that the giants had provided for them last  night: except Puddleglum, whom nothing would fit. Jill wore a vivid green robe, rather  too long for her, and over that a scarlet mantle fringed with white fur. Scrubb had scarlet  stockings, blue tunic and cloak, a gold-hilted sword, and a feathered bonnet.  
"Nice bits of colour, you two are," muttered Puddleglum. "Show up very prettily on a  winter day. The worst archer in the world couldn't miss either of you if you were in  range. And talking of archers, we'll be sorry not to have our own bows before long, I  shouldn't wonder. Bit thin, too, those clothes of yours, are they?"  
"Yes, I'm freezing already," said Jill.  
A few minutes ago when they had been in the kitchen, she had thought that if only they  could once get out of the castle, their escape would be almost complete. She now realized  that the most dangerous part of it was still to come.  
"Steady, steady," said Puddleglum. "Don't look back. Don't walk too quickly. Whatever  you do, don't run. Look as if we were just taking a stroll, and then, if anyone sees us, he  might, just possibly, not bother. The moment we look like people running away, we're  done."  
The distance to the City Ruinous seemed longer than Jill would have believed possible.  But bit by bit they were covering it. Then came a noise. The other two gasped. Jill, who  didn't know what it was, said, "What's that?"  
"Hunting horn," whispered Scrubb.  
"But don't run even now," said Puddleglum. "Not until I give the word."  
This time Jill couldn't help glancing over her shoulder. There, about half a mile away,  was the hunt returning from behind them on the left.  
They walked on. Suddenly a great clamour of giant voices arose: then shouts and hollas.  
 
 "They've seen us. Run," said Puddleglum.  
Jill gathered up her long skirts - horrible things for running in - and ran. There was no  mistaking the danger now. She could hear the music of the hounds. She could hear the  King's voice roaring out, "After them, after them, or we'll have no man-pies tomorrow."  
She was last of the three now, cumbered with her dress, slipping on loose stones, her hair  getting in her mouth, running-pains across her chest. The hounds were much nearer. Now  she had to run uphill, up the stony slope which led to the lowest step of the giant  stairway. She had no idea what they would do when they got there, or how they would be  any better off even if they reached the top.  
But she didn't think about that. She was like a hunted animal now; as long as the pack  was after her, she must run till she dropped.  
The Marsh-wiggle was ahead. As he came to the lowest step he stopped, looked a little to  his right, and all of a sudden darted into a little hole or crevice at the bottom of it. His  long legs, disappearing into it, looked very like those of a spider. Scrubb hesitated and  then vanished after him. Jill, breathless and reeling, came to the place about a minute  later. It was an unattractive hole - a crack between the earth and the stone about three feet  long and hardly more than a foot high. You had to fling yourself flat on your face and  crawl in. You couldn't do it so very quickly either. She felt sure that a dog's teeth would  close on her heel before she had got inside.  
"Quick, quick. Stones. Fill up the opening," came Puddleglum's voice in the darkness  beside her. It was pitch black in there, except for the grey light in the opening by which  they had crawled in. The other two were working hard. She could see Scrubb's small  hands and the Marshwiggle's big, frog-like hands black against the light, working  desperately to pile up stones. Then she realized how important this was and began  groping for large stones herself, and handing them to the others. Before the dogs were  baying and yelping at the cave mouth, they had it pretty well filled; and now, of course,  there was no light at all.  
"Farther in, quick," said Puddleglum's voice.  
"Let's all hold hands," said Jill.  
"Good idea," said Scrubb. But it took them quite a long time to find one another's hands  in the darkness. The dogs were sniffing at the other side of the barrier now.  
"Try if we can stand up," suggested Scrubb. They did and found that they could. Then,  Puddleglum holding out a hand behind him to Scrubb, and Scrubb holding a hand out  behind him to Jill (who wished very much that she was the middle one of the party and  not the last), they began groping with their feet and stumbling forwards into the  blackness. It was all loose stones underfoot. Then Puddleglum came up to a wall of rock.  They turned a little to their right and went on. There were a good many more twists and  
 
 turns. Jill had now no sense of direction at all, and no idea where the mouth of the cave  lay.  
"The question is," came Puddleglum's voice out of the darkness ahead, "whether, taking  one thing with another, it wouldn't be better to go back (if we can) and give the giants a  treat at that feast of theirs, instead of losing our way in the guts of a hill where, ten to one,  there's dragons and deep holes and gases and water and - Ow! Let go! Save yourselves.  I'm -"  
After that all happened quickly. There was a wild cry, a swishing, dusty, gravelly noise, a  rattle of stones, and Jill found herself sliding, sliding, hopelessly sliding, and sliding  quicker every moment down a slope that grew steeper every moment. It was not a  smooth, firm slope, but a slope of small stones and rubbish. Even if you could have stood  up, it would have been no use. Any bit of that slope you had put your foot on would have  slid away from under you and carried you down with it. But Jill was more lying than  standing. And the farther they all slid, the more they disturbed all the stones and earth, so  that the general downward rush of everything (including themselves) got faster and  louder and dustier and dirtier. From the sharp cries and swearing of the other two, Jill got  the idea that many of the stones which she was dislodging were hitting Scrubb and  Puddleglum pretty hard. And now she was going at a furious rate and felt sure she would  be broken to bits at the bottom.  
Yet somehow they weren't. They were a mass of bruises, and the wet sticky stuff on her  face appeared to be blood. And such a mass of loose earth, shingle, and larger stones was  piled up round her (and partly over her) that she couldn't get up. The darkness was so  complete that it made no difference at all whether you had your eyes open or shut. There  was no noise. And that was the very worst moment Jill had ever known in her life.  Supposing she was alone: supposing the others . . . Then she heard movements around  her. And presently all three, in shaken voices, were explaining that none of them seemed  to have any broken bones.  
"We can never get up that again," said Scrubb's voice.  
"And have you noticed how warm it is?" said the voice of Puddleglum. "That means  we're a long way down. Might be nearly a mile."  
No one said anything. Some time later Puddleglum added:  
"My tinder-box has gone."  
After another long pause Jill said, "I'm terribly thirsty."  
No one suggested doing anything. There was so obviously nothing to be done. For the  moment, they did not feel it quite so badly as one might have expected; that was because  they were so tired.  
 
 Long, long afterwards, without the slightest warning, an utterly strange voice spoke. They  knew at once that it was not the one voice in the whole world for which each had secretly  been hoping; the voice of Aslan. It was a dark, flat voice - almost, if you know what that  means, a pitch-black voice. It said:  
"What make you here, creatures of the Overworld?"  
  
  
CHAPTER TEN  
TRAVELS WITHOUT THE SUN  
  
"WHO's there?" shouted the three travellers.  
"I am the Warden of the Marches of Underland, and with me stand a hundred Earthmen  in arms," came the reply. "Tell me quickly who you are and what is your errand in the  Deep Realm?"  
"We fell down by accident," said Puddleglum, truthfully enough.  
"Many fall down, and few return to the sunlit lands," said the voice. "Make ready now to  come with me to the Queen of the Deep Realm."  
"What does she want with us?" asked Scrubb cautiously.  
"I do not know," said the voice. "Her will is not to be questioned but obeyed."  
While he said these words there was a noise like a soft explosion and immediately a cold  light, grey with a little blue in it, flooded the cavern. All hope that the speaker had been  idly boasting when he spoke of his hundred armed followers died at once. Jill found  herself blinking and staring at a dense crowd. They were of all sizes, from little gnomes  barely a foot high to stately figures taller than men. All carried three-pronged spears in  their hands, and all were dreadfully pale, and all stood as still as statues. Apart from that,  they were very different; some had tails and others not, some wore great beards and  others had very round, smooth faces, big as pumpkins. There were long, pointed noses,  and long, soft noses like small trunks, and great blobby noses. Several had single horns in  the middle of their foreheads. But in one respect they were all alike: every face in the  whole hundred was as sad as a face could be. They were so sad that, after the first glance,  Jill almost forgot to be afraid of them. She felt she would like to cheer them up.  
"Well!" said Puddleglum, rubbing his hands. "This is just what I needed. If these chaps  don't teach me to take a serious view of life, I don't know what will. Look at that fellow  with the walrus moustache - or that one with the -"  
 
   
"Get up," said the leader of the Earthmen.  
There was nothing else to be done. The three travellers scrambled to their feet and joined  hands. One wanted the touch of a friend's hand at a moment like that. And the Earthmen  came all round them, padding on large, soft feet, on which some had ten toes, some  twelve, and others none.  
"March," said the Warden: and march they did.  
The cold light came from a large ball on the top of a long pole, and the tallest of the  gnomes carried this at the head of the procession. By its cheerless rays they could see that  they were in a natural cavern; the walls and roof were knobbed, twisted, and gashed into  a thousand fantastic shapes, and the stony floor sloped downward as they proceeded. It  was worse for Jill than for the others, because she hated dark, underground places. And  when, as they went on, the cave got lower and narrower, and when, at last, the light- bearer stood aside, and the gnomes, one by one, stooped down (all except the very  smallest ones) and stepped into a little dark crack and disappeared, she felt she could bear  it no longer.  
"I can't go in there, I can't! I can't! I won't," she panted. The Earthmen said nothing but  they all lowered their spears and pointed them at her.  
"Steady, Pole," said Puddleglum. "Those big fellows wouldn't be crawling in there if it  didn't get wider later on. And there's one thing about this underground work, we shan't  get any rain."  
"Oh, you don't understand. I can't," wailed Jill.  
"Think how 1 felt on that cliff, Pole," said Scrubb. "You go first, Puddleglum, and I'll  come after her."  
"That's right," said the Marsh-wiggle, getting down on his hands and knees. "You keep a  grip of my heels, Pole, and Scrubb will hold on to yours. Then we'll all be comfortable."  
"Comfortable!" said Jill. But she got down and they crawled in on their elbows. It was a  nasty place. You had to go flat on your face for what seemed like half an hour, though it  may really have been only five minutes. It was hot. Jill felt she was being smothered. But  at last a dim light showed ahead, the tunnel grew wider and higher, and they came out,  hot, dirty, and shaken, into a cave so large that it scarcely seemed like a cave at all.  
It was full of a dim, drowsy radiance, so that here they had no need of the Earthmen's  strange lantern. The floor was soft with some kind of moss and out of this grew many  strange shapes, branched and tall like trees, but flabby like mushrooms. They stood too  far apart to make a forest; it was more like a park. The light (a greenish grey) seemed to  come both from them and from the moss, and it was not strong enough to reach the roof  
 
 of the cave, which must have been a long way overhead. Across the mild, soft, sleepy  place they were now made to march. It was very sad, but with a quiet sort of sadness like  soft music.  
Here they passed dozens of strange animals lying on the turf, either dead or asleep, Jill  could not tell which. These were mostly of a dragonish or bat-like sort; Puddleglum did  not know what any of them were.  
"Do they grow here?" Scrubb asked the Warden. He seemed very surprised at being  spoken to, but replied, "No. They are all beasts that have found their way down by  chasms and caves, out of Overland into the Deep Realm. Many come down, and few  return to the sunlit lands. It is said that they will all wake at the end of the world."  
His mouth shut like a box when he had said this, and in the great silence of that cave the  children felt that they would not dare to speak again. The bare feet of the gnomes,  padding on the deep moss, made no sound. There was no wind, there were no birds, there  was no sound of water. There was no sound of breathing from the strange beasts.  
When they had walked for several miles, they came to a wall of rock, and in it a low  archway leading into another cavern. It was not, however, so bad as the last entrance and  Jill could go through it without bending her head. It brought them into a smaller cave,  long and narrow, about the shape and size of a cathedral. And here, filling almost the  whole length of it, lay an enormous man fast asleep. He was far bigger than any of the  giants, and his face was not like a giant's, but noble and beautiful. His breast rose and fell  gently under the snowy beard which covered him to the waist. A pure, silver light (no one  saw where it came from) rested upon him.  
"Who's that?" asked Puddleglum. And it was so long since anyone had spoken, that Jill  wondered how he had the nerve.  
"That is old Father Time, who once was a King in Overland," said the Warden. "And now  he has sunk down into the Deep Realm and lies dreaming of all the things that are done in  the upper world. Many sink down, and few return to the sunlit lands. They say he will  wake at the end of the world."  
And out of that cave they passed into another, and then into another and another, and so  on till Jill lost count, but always they were going downhill and each cave was lower than  the last, till the very thought of the weight and depth of earth above you was suffocating.  At last they came to a place where the Warden commanded his cheerless lantern to be lit  again. Then they passed into a cave so wide and dark that they could see nothing of it  except that right in front of them a strip of pale sand ran down into still water. And there,  beside a little jetty, lay a ship without mast or sail but with many oars. They were made to  go on board her and led forward to the bows where there was a clear space in front of the  rowers' benches and a seat running round inside the bulwarks.  
 
 "One thing I'd like to know," said Puddleglum, "is whether anyone from our world - from  up-a-top, I mean has ever done this trip before?"  
"Many have taken ship at the pale beaches," replied the Warden, "and-"  
"Yes, I know," interrupted Puddleglum. "And few return to the sunlit lands. You needn't  say it again. You are a chap of one idea, aren't you?"  
The children huddled close together on each side of Puddleglum. They had thought him a  wet blanket while they were still above ground, but down here he seemed the only  comforting thing they had. Then the pale lantern was hung up amidships, the Earthmen  sat to the oars, and the ship began to move. The lantern cast its light only a very short  way. Looking ahead, they could see nothing but smooth, dark water, fading into absolute  blackness.  
"Oh, whatever will become of us?" said Jill despairingly.  
"Now don't you let your spirits down, Pole," said the Marsh-wiggle. "There's one thing  you've got to remember. We're back on the right lines. We were to go under the Ruined  City, and we are under it. We're following the instructions again."  
Presently they were given food - flat, flabby cakes of some sort which had hardly any  taste. And after that, they gradually fell asleep. But when they woke, everything was just  the same; the gnomes still rowing, the ship still gliding on, still dead blackness ahead.  How often they woke and slept and ate and slept again, none of them could ever  remember. And the worst thing about it was that you began to feel as if you had always  lived on that ship, in that darkness, and to wonder whether sun and blue skies and wind  and birds had not been only a dream.  
They had almost given up hoping or being afraid about anything when at last they saw  lights ahead: dreary lights, like that of their own lantern. Then, quite suddenly, one of  these lights came close and they saw that they were passing another ship. After that they  met several ships. Then, staring till their eyes hurt, they saw that some of the lights ahead  were shining on what looked like wharfs, walls, towers, and moving crowds. But still  there was hardly any noise.  
"By Jove," said Scrubb. "A city!" and soon they all saw that he was right.  
But it was a queer city. The lights were so few and far apart that they would hardly have  done for scattered cottages in our world. But the little bits of the place which you could  see by the lights were like glimpses of a great seaport. You could make out in one place a  whole crowd of ships loading or unloading; in another, bales of stuff and warehouses; in  a third, walls and pillars that suggested great palaces or temples; and always, wherever  the light fell, endless crowds - hundreds of Earthmen, jostling one another as they padded  softly about their business in narrow streets, broad squares, or up great flights of steps.  Their continued movement made a sort of soft, murmuring noise as the ship drew nearer  
 
 and nearer; but there was not a song or a shout or a bell or the rattle of a wheel anywhere.  The City was as quiet, and nearly as dark, as the inside of an ant-hill.  
At last their ship was brought alongside a quay and made fast. The three travellers were  taken ashore and marched up into the City. Crowds of Earthmen, no two alike, rubbed  shoulders with them in the crowded streets, and the sad light fell on many sad and  grotesque faces. But no one showed any interest in the strangers. Every gnome seemed to  be as busy as it was sad, though Jill never found what they were so busy about. But the  endless moving, shoving, hurrying, and the soft pad-pad-pad went on.  
At last they came to what appeared to be a great castle, though few of the windows in it  were lighted. Here they were taken in and made to cross a courtyard, and to climb many  staircases. This brought them in the end to a great murkily lit room. But in one corner of  it - oh joy! - there was an archway filled with a quite different sort of light; the honest,  yellowish, warm light of such a lamp as humans use. What showed by this light inside the  archway was the foot of a staircase which wound upward between walls of stone. The  light seemed to come from the top. Two Earthmen stood one on each side of the arch like  sentries, or footmen.  
The Warden went up to these two, and said, as if it were a password:  
"Many sink down to the Underworld."  
"And few return to the sunlit lands," they answered, as if it were the countersign. Then all  three put their heads together and talked. At last one of the two gnomes-in-waiting said,  "I tell you the Queen's grace is gone from hence on her great affair. We had best keep  these top dwellers in strait prison till her homecoming. Few return to the sunlit lands."  
At that moment the conversation was interrupted by what seemed to Jill the most  delightful noise in the world. It came from above, from the top of the staircase; and it was  a clear, ringing, perfectly human voice, the voice of a young man.  
"What coil are you keeping down there, Mullugutherum?" it shouted. "Overworlders, ha!  Bring them up to me, and that presently."  
"Please it your Highness to remember," began Mullugutherum, but the voice cut him  short.  
"It pleases my Highness principally to be obeyed, old mutterer. Bring them up," it called.  
Mullugutherum shook his head, motioned to the travellers to follow and began going up  the staircase. At every step the light increased. There were rich tapestries hanging on the  walls. The lamplight shone golden through thin curtains at the staircase-head. The  Earthmen parted the curtains and stood aside. The three passed in. They were in a  beautiful room, richly tapestried, with a bright fire on a clean hearth, and red wine and  cut glass sparkling on the table. A young man with fair hair rose to greet them. He was  
 
 handsome and looked both bold and kind, though there was something about his face that  didn't seem quite right. He was dressed in black and altogether looked a little bit like  Hamlet.  
"Welcome, Overworlders," he cried. "But stay a moment! I cry you mercy! I have seen  you two fair children, and this, your strange governor, before. Was it not you three that  met me by the bridge on the borders of Ettinsmoor when I rode there by my Lady's side?"  
"Oh . . . you were the black knight who never spoke?" exclaimed Jill.  
"And was that lady the Queen of Underland?" asked Puddleglum, in no very friendly  voice. And Scrubb, who was thinking the same, burst out, "Because if it was, I think she  was jolly mean to send us off to a castle of giants who intended to eat us. What harm had  we ever done her, I should like to know?"  
"How?" said the Black Knight with a frown. "If you were not so young a warrior, Boy,  you and I must have fought to the death on this quarrel. I can hear no words against my  Lady's honour. But of this you may be assured, that whatever she said to you, she said of  a good intent. You do not know her. She is a nosegay of all virtues, as truth, mercy,  constancy, gentleness, courage, and the rest. I say what I know. Her kindness to me  alone, who can in no way reward her, would make an admirable history. But you shall  know and love her hereafter. Meanwhile, what is your errand in the Deep Lands?"  
And before Puddleglum could stop her, Jill blurted out, "Please we are trying to find  Prince Rilian of Narnia." And then she realized what a frightful risk she had taken; these  people might be enemies. But the Knight showed no interest.  
"Rilian? Narnia?" he said carelessly. "Narnia? What land is that? I have never heard the  name. It must be a thousand leagues from those parts of the Overworld that I know. But it  was a strange fantasy that brought you seeking this - how do you call him? - Billian?  Trillian? in my Lady's realm. Indeed, to my certain knowledge, there is no such man  here." He laughed very loudly at this, and Jill thought to herself, "I wonder is that what's  wrong with his face? Is he a bit silly?"  
"We had been told to look for a message on the stones of the City Ruinous," said Scrubb.  "And we saw the words UNDER ME."  
The Knight laughed even more heartily than before. "You were the more deceived," he  said. "Those words meant nothing to your purpose. Had you but asked my Lady, she  could have given you better counsel. For those words are all that is left of a longer script,  which in ancient times, as she well remembers, expressed this verse:  
Though under Earth and throneless now I be, Yet, while I lived, all Earth was under me.  
From which it is plain that some great king of the ancient giants, who lies buried there,  caused this boast to be cut in the stone over his sepulchre; though the breaking up of  
 
 some stones, and the carrying away of others for new buildings, and the filling up of the  cuts with rubble, has left only two words that can still be read. Is it not the merriest jest in  the world that you should have thought they were written to you?"  
This was like cold water down the back to Scrubb and  
Jill; for it seemed to them very likely that the words had nothing to do with their quest at  all, and that they had been taken in by a mere accident.  
"Don't you mind him," said Puddleglum. "There are no accidents. Our guide is Aslan; and  he was there when the giant King caused the letters to be cut, and he knew already all  things that would come of them; including this."  
"This guide of yours must be a long liver, friend," said the Knight with another of his  laughs.  
Jill began to find them a little irritating.  
"And it seems to me, Sir," answered Puddleglum, "that this Lady of yours must be a long  liver too, if she remembers the verse as it was when they first cut it."  
"Very shrewd, Frog-face," said the Knight, clapping Puddleglum on the shoulder and  laughing again. "And you have hit the truth. She is of divine race, and knows neither age  nor death. I am the more thankful to her for all her infinite bounty to such a poor mortal  wretch as I. For you must know, Sirs, I am a man under most strange afflictions, and  none but the Queen's grace would have had patience with me. Patience, said I? But it  goes far beyond that. She has promised me a great kingdom in Overland, and, when I am  king, her own most gracious hand in marriage. But the tale is too long for you to hear  fasting and standing. Hi there, some of you! Bring wine and Updwellers' food for my  guests. Please you, be seated, gentlemen. Little maiden, sit in this chair. You shall hear it  all."  
  
CHAPTER ELEVEN  
IN THE DARK CASTLE  
WHEN the meal (which was pigeon pie, cold ham, salad, and cakes) had been brought,  and all had drawn their chairs up to the table and begun, the Knight continued:  
"You must understand, friends, that I know nothing of who I was and whence I came into  this Dark World. I remember no time when I was not dwelling, as now, at the court of  this all but heavenly Queen; but my thought is that she saved me from some evil  enchantment and brought me hither of her exceeding bounty. (Honest Frogfoot, your cup  is empty. Suffer me to refill it.) And this seems to me the likelier because even now I am  
 
 bound by a spell, from which my Lady alone can free me. Every night there comes an  hour when my mind is most horribly changed, and, after my mind, my body. For first I  become furious and wild and would rush upon my dearest friends to kill them, if I were  not bound. And soon after that, I turn into the likeness of a great serpent, hungry, fierce,  and deadly. (Sir, be pleased to take another breast of pigeon, I entreat you.) So they tell  me, and they certainly speak truth, for my Lady says the same. I myself know nothing of  it, for when my hour is past I awake forgetful of all that vile fit and in my proper shape  and sound mind - saving that I am somewhat wearied. (Little lady, eat one of these honey  cakes, which are brought for me from some barbarous land in the far south of the world.)  Now the Queen's majesty knows by her art that I shall be freed from this enchantment  when once she has made me king of a land in the Overworld and set its crown upon my  head. The land is already chosen and the very place of our breaking out. Her Earthmen  have worked day and night digging a way beneath it, and have now gone so far and so  high that they tunnel not a score of feet beneath the very grass on which the Updwellers  of that country walk. It will be very soon now that those Uplanders' fate will come upon  them. She herself is at the diggings tonight, and I expect a message to go to her. Then the  thin roof of earth which still keeps me from my kingdom will be broken through, and  with her to guide me and a thousand Earthmen at my back, I shall ride forth in arms, fall  suddenly on our enemies, slay their chief men, cast down their strong places, and  doubtless be their crowned king within four and twenty hours."  
"It's a bit rough luck on them, isn't it?" said Scrubb.  
"Thou art a lad of a wondrous, quick-working wit!" exclaimed the Knight. "For, on my  honour, I had never thought of it so before. I see your meaning." He looked slightly, very  slightly troubled for a moment or two; but his face soon cleared and he broke out, with  another of his loud laughs, "But fie on gravity! Is it not the most comical and ridiculous  thing in the world to think of them all going about their business and never dreaming that  under their peaceful fields and floors, only a fathom down, there is a great army ready to  break out upon them like a fountain! And they never to have suspected! Why, they  themselves, when once the first smart of their defeat is over, can hardly choose but laugh  at the thought!"  
"I don't think it's funny at all," said Jill. "I think you'll be a wicked tyrant."  
"What?" said the Knight, still laughing and patting her head in a quite infuriating fashion.  "Is our little maid a deep politician? But never fear, sweetheart. In ruling that land, I shall  do all by the counsel of my Lady, who will then be my Queen too. Her word shall be my  law, even as my word will be law to the people we have conquered."  
"Where I come from," said Jill, who was disliking him more every minute, "they don't  think much of men who are bossed about by their wives."  
"Shalt think otherwise when thou hast a man of thine own, I warrant you," said the  Knight, apparently thinking this very funny. "But with my Lady, it is another matter. I am  well content to live by her word, who has already saved me from a thousand dangers. No  
 
 mother has taken pains more tenderly for her child, than the Queen's grace has for me.  Why, look you, amid all her cares and business, she rideth out with me in the Overworld  many a time and oft to accustom my eyes to the sunlight. And then I must go fully armed  and with visor down, so that no man may see my face, and I must speak to no one. For  she has found out by art magical that this would hinder my deliverance from the grievous  enchantment I lie under. Is not that a lady worthy of a man's whole worship?"  
"Sounds a very nice lady indeed," said Puddleglum in a voice which meant exactly the  opposite.  
They were thoroughly tired of the Knight's talk before they had finished supper.  Puddleglum was thinking, "I wonder what game that witch is really playing with this  young fool." Scrubb was thinking, "He's a great baby, really: tied to that woman's apron  strings; he's a sap." And Jill was thinking, "He's the silliest, most conceited, selfish pig  I've met for a long time." But when the meal was over, the Knight's mood had changed.  There was no more laughter about him.  
"Friends," he said, "my hour is now very near. I am ashamed that you should see me yet I  dread being left alone. They will come in presently and bind me hand and foot to yonder  chair. Alas, so it must be: for in my fury, they tell me, I would destroy all that I could  reach."  
"I say," said Scrubb, "I'm awfully sorry about your enchantment of course, but what will  those fellows do to us when they come to bind you? They talked of putting us in prison.  And we don't like all those dark places very much. We'd much rather stay here till you're  . . . better . . . if we may."  
"It is well thought of," said the Knight. "By custom none but the Queen herself remains  with me in my evil hour. Such is her tender care for my honour that she would not  willingly suffer any ears but her own to hear the words I utter in that frenzy. But I could  not easily persuade my attendant gnomes that you should be left with me. And I think I  hear their soft feet even now upon the stairs. Go through yonder door: it leads into my  other apartments. And there, either await my coming when they have unbound me; or, if  you will, return and sit with me in my ravings."  
They followed his directions and passed out of the room by a door which they had not yet  seen opened. It brought them, they were pleased to see, not into darkness but into a  lighted corridor. They tried various doors and found (what they very badly needed) water  for washing and even a looking glass. "He never offered us a wash before supper," said  Jill, drying her face. "Selfish, selfcentred pig."  
"Are we going back to watch the enchantment, or shall we stay here?" said Scrubb.  
"Stay here, I vote," said Jill. "I'd much rather not see it." But she felt a little inquisitive all  the same.  
 
 "No, go back," said Puddleglum. "We may pick up some information, and we need all we  can get. I am sure that Queen is a witch and an enemy. And those Earthmen would knock  us on the head as soon as look at us. There's a stronger smell of danger and lies and  magic and treason about this land than I've ever smelled before. We need to keep our  eyes and ears open."  
They went back down the corridor and gently pushed the door open. "It's all right," said  Scrubb, meaning that there were no Earthmen about. Then they all came back into the  room where they had supped.  
The main door was now shut, concealing the curtain between which they had first  entered. The Knight was seated in a curious silver chair, to which he was bound by his  ankles, his knees, his elbows, his wrists, and his waist. There was sweat on his forehead  and his face was filled with anguish.  
"Come in, friends," he said, glancing quickly up. "The fit is not yet upon me. Make no  noise, for I told that prying chamberlain that you were in bed. Now . . . I can feel it  coming. Quick! Listen while I am master of myself. When the fit is upon me, it well may  be that I shall beg and implore you, with entreaties and threatenings, to loosen my bonds.  They say I do. I shall call upon you by all that is most dear and most dreadful. But do not  listen to me. Harden your hearts and stop your ears. For while I am bound you are safe.  But if once I were up and out of this chair, then first would come my fury, and after that"  - he shuddered - "the change into a loathsome serpent."  
"There's no fear of our loosing you," said Puddleglum. "We've no wish to meet wild men;  or serpents either."  
"I should think not," said Scrubb and Jill together.  
"All the same," added Puddleglum in a whisper. "Don't let's be too sure. Let's be on our  guard. We've muffed everything else, you know. He'll be cunning, I shouldn't wonder,  once he gets started. Can we trust one another? Do we all promise that whatever he says  we don't touch those cords? Whatever he says, mind you?"  
"Rather!" said Scrubb.  
"There's nothing in the world he can say or do that'll make me change my mind," said Jill.  
"Hush! Something's happening," said Puddleglum.  
The Knight was moaning. His face was as pale as putty, and he writhed in his bonds. And  whether because she was sorry for him, or for some other reason, Jill thought that he  looked a nicer sort of man than he had looked before.  
"Ah," he groaned. "Enchantments, enchantments . . . the heavy, tangled, cold, clammy  web of evil magic. Buried alive. Dragged down under the earth, down into the sooty  
 
 blackness . . . how many years is it? . . . Have I lived ten years, or a thousand years, in the  pit? Maggotmen all around me. Oh, have mercy. Let me out, let me go back. Let me feel  the wind and see the sky . . . There used to be a little pool. When you looked down into it  you could see all the trees growing upside-down in the water, all green, and below them,  deep, very deep, the blue sky."  
He had been speaking in a low voice; now he looked up, fixed his eyes upon them, and  said loud and clear:  
"Quick! I am sane now. Every night I am sane. If only I could get out of this enchanted  chair, it would last. I should be a man again. But every night they bind me, and so every  night my chance is gone. But you are not enemies. I am not your prisoner. Quick! Cut  these cords."  
"Stand fast! Steady," said Puddleglum to the two children.  
"I beseech you to hear me," said the Knight, forcing himself to speak calmly. "Have they  told you that if I am released from this chair I shall kill you and become a serpent? I see  by your faces that they have. It is a lie. It is at this hour that I am in my right mind: it is  all the rest of the day that I am enchanted. You are not Earthmen nor witches. Why  should you be on their side? Of your courtesy, cut my bonds."  
"Steady! Steady! Steady!" said the three travellers to one another.  
"Oh, you have hearts of stone," said the Knight. "Believe me, you look upon a wretch  who has suffered almost more than any mortal can bear. What wrong have I ever done  you, that you should side with my enemies to keep me in such miseries? And the minutes  are slipping past. Now you can save me; when this hour has passed, I shall be witless  again - the toy and lap-dog, nay, more likely the pawn and tool, of the most devilish  sorceress that ever planned the woe of men. And this night, of all nights, when she is  away! You take from me a chance that may never come again."  
"This is dreadful. I do wish we'd stayed away till it was over," said Jill.  
"Steady!" said Puddleglum.  
The prisoner's voice was now rising into a shriek. "Let me go, I say. Give me my sword.  My sword! Once I am free I shall take such revenge on Earthmen that Underland will talk  of it for a thousand years!"  
"Now the frenzy is beginning," said Scrubb. "I hope those knots are all right."  
"Yes," said Puddleglum. "He'd have twice his natural strength if he got free now. And I'm  not clever with my sword. He'd get us both, I shouldn't wonder; and then Pole on her own  would be left to tackle the snake."  
 
 The prisoner was now so straining at his bonds that they cut into his wrists and ankles.  "Beware," he said. "Beware. One night I did break them. But the witch was there that  time. You will not have her to help you tonight. Free me now, and I am your friend. I'm  your mortal enemy else."  
"Cunning, isn't he?" said Puddleglum.  
"Once and for all," said the prisoner, "I adjure you to set me free. By all fears and all  loves, by the bright skies of Overland, by the great Lion, by Aslan himself, I charge you - "  
"Oh!" cried the three travellers as though they had been hurt. "It's the sign," said  Puddleglum. "It was the words of the sign," said Scrubb more cautiously. "Oh, what are  we to do?" said Jill.  
It was a dreadful question. What had been the use of promising one another that they  would not on any account set the Knight free, if they were now to do so the first time he  happened to call upon a name they really cared about? On the other hand, what had been  the use of learning the signs if they weren't going to obey them? Yet could Aslan have  really meant them to unbind anyone even a lunatic - who asked it in his name? Could it  be a mere accident? Or how if the Queen of the Underworld knew all about the signs and  had made the Knight learn this name simply in order to entrap them? But then, supposing  this was the real sign? . . . They had muffed three already; they daren't muff the fourth.  
"Oh, if only we knew!" said Jill.  
"I think we do know," said Puddleglum.  
"Do you mean you think everything will come right if we do untie him?" said Scrubb.  
"I don't know about that," said Puddleglum. "You see, Aslan didn't tell Pole what would  happen. He only told her what to do. That fellow will be the death of us once he's up, I  shouldn't wonder. But that doesn't let us off following the sign."  
They all stood looking at one another with bright eyes. It was a sickening moment. "All  right!" said Jill suddenly. "Let's get it over. Good-bye, everyone ...!" They all shook  hands. The Knight was screaming by now; there was foam on his cheeks.  
"Come on, Scrubb," said Puddleglum. He and Scrubb drew their swords and went over to  the captive.  
"In the name of Aslan," they said and began methodically cutting the cords. The instant  the prisoner was free, he crossed the room in a single bound, seized his own sword  (which had been taken from him and laid on the table), and drew it.  
 
 "You first!" he cried and fell upon the silver chair. That must have been a good sword.  The silver gave way before its edge like string, and in a moment a few twisted fragments,  shining on the floor, were all that was left. But as the chair broke, there came from it a  bright flash, a sound like small thunder, and (for one moment) a loathsome smell.  
"Lie there, vile engine of sorcery," he said, "lest your mistress should ever use you for  another victim." Then he turned and surveyed his rescuers; and the something wrong,  whatever it was, had vanished from his face.  
"What?" he cried, turning to Puddleglum. "Do I see before me a Marsh-wiggle - a real,  live, honest, Narnian Marsh-wiggle?"  
"Oh, so you have heard of Narnia after all?" said Jill.  
"Had I forgotten it when I was under the spell?" asked the Knight. "Well, that and all  other bedevilments are now over. You may well believe that I know Narnia, for I am  Rilian, Prince of Narnia, and Caspian the great King is my father."  
"Your Royal Highness," said Puddleglum, sinking on one knee (and the children did the  same), "we have come hither for no other end than to seek you."  
"And who are you, my other deliverers?" said the Prince to Scrubb and Jill.  
"We were sent by Aslan himself from beyond the world's end to seek your Highness,"  said Scrubb. "I am Eustace who sailed with him to the island of Ramandu."  
"I owe all three of you a greater debt than I can ever pay," said Prince Rilian. "But my  father? Is he yet alive?"  
"He sailed east again before we left Narnia, my lord," said Puddleglum. "But your  Highness must consider that the King is very old. It is ten to one his Majesty must die on  the voyage."  
"He is old, you say. How long then have I been in the power of the witch?'  
"It is more than ten years since your Highness was lost in the woods at the north side of  Narnia."  
"Ten years!" said the Prince, drawing his hand across his face as if to rub away the past.  "Yes, I believe you. For now that I am myself I can remember that enchanted life, though  while I was enchanted I could not remember my true self. And now, fair friends - but  wait! I hear their feet (does it not sicken a man, that padding woolly tread! faugh!) on the  stairs. Lock the door, boy. Or stay. I have a better thought than that. I will fool these  Earthmen, if Aslan gives me the wit. Take your cue from me."  
He walked resolutely to the door and flung it wide open.  
 
   
  
CHAPTER TWELVE  
THE QUEEN OF UNDERLAND  
TWO Earthmen entered, but instead of advancing into the room, they placed themselves  one on each side of the door, and bowed deeply. They were followed immediately by the  last person whom anyone had expected or wished to see: the Lady of the Green Kirtle,  the Queen of Underland. She stood dead still in the doorway, and they could see her eyes  moving as she took in the whole situation - the three strangers, the silver chair destroyed,  and the Prince free, with his sword in his hand.  
She turned very white; but Jill thought it was the sort of whiteness that comes over some  people's faces not when they are frightened but when they are angry. For a moment the  Witch fixed her eyes on the Prince, and there was murder in them. Then she seemed to  change her mind.  
"Leave us," she said to the two Earthmen. "And let none disturb us till I call, on pain of  death." The gnomes padded away obediently, and the Witch-queen shut and locked the  door.  
"How now, my lord Prince," she said. "Has your nightly fit not yet come upon you, or is  it over so soon? Why stand you here unbound? Who are these aliens? And is it they who  have destroyed the chair which was your only safety?"  
Prince Rilian shivered as she spoke to him. And no wonder: it is not easy to throw off in  half an hour an enchantment which has made one a slave for ten years. Then, speaking  with a great effort, he said:  
"Madam, there will be no more need of that chair. And you, who have told me a hundred  times how deeply you pitied me for the sorceries by which I was bound, will doubtless  hear with joy that they are now ended for ever. There was, it seems, some small error in  your Ladyship's way of treating them. These, my true friends, have delivered me. I am  now in my right mind, and there are two things I will say to you. First - as for your  Ladyship's design of putting me at the head of an army of Earthmen so that I may break  out into the Overworld and there, by main force, make myself king over some nation that  never did me wrong - murdering their natural lords and holding their throne as a bloody  and foreign tyrant - now that I know myself, I do utterly abhor and renounce it as plain  villainy. And second: I am the King's son of Narnia, Rilian, the only child of Caspian,  Tenth of that name, whom some call Caspian the Seafarer. Therefore, Madam, it is my  purpose, as it is also my duty, to depart suddenly from your Highness's court into my own  country. Please it you to grant me and my friends safe conduct and a guide through your  dark realm."  
 
   
Now the Witch said nothing at all, but moved gently across the room, always keeping her  face and eyes very steadily towards the Prince. When she had come to a little ark set in  the wall not far from the fireplace, she opened it, and took out first a handful of a green  powder. This she threw on the fire. It did not blaze much, but a very sweet and drowsy  smell came from it. And all through the conversation which followed, that smell grew  stronger, and filled the room, and made it harder to think. Secondly, she took out a  musical instrument rather like a mandolin. She began to play it with her fingers - a  steady, monotonous thrumming that you didn't notice after a few minutes. But the less  you noticed it, the more it got into your brain and your blood. This also made it hard to  think. After she had thrummed for a time (and the sweet smell was now strong) she began  speaking in a sweet, quiet voice.  
"Narnia?" she said. "Narnia? I have often heard your Lordship utter that name in your  ravings. Dear Prince, you are very sick. There is no land called Narnia."  
"Yes there is, though, Ma'am," said Puddleglum. "You see, I happen to have lived there  all my life."  
"Indeed," said the Witch. "Tell me, I pray you, where that country is?"  
"Up there," said Puddleglum, stoutly, pointing overhead. "I - I don't know exactly  where."  
"How?" said the Queen, with a kind, soft, musical laugh. "Is there a country up among  the stones and mortar of the roof?"  
"No," said Puddleglum, struggling a little to get his breath. "It's in Overworld."  
"And what, or where, pray is this . . . how do you call it. . . Overworld?"  
"Oh, don't be so silly," said Scrubb, who was fighting hard against the enchantment of the  sweet smell and the thrumming. "As if you didn't know! It's up above, up where you can  see the sky and the sun and the stars. Why, you've been there yourself. We met you  there."  
"I cry you mercy, little brother," laughed the Witch (you couldn't have heard a lovelier  laugh). "I have no memory of that meeting. But we often meet our friends in strange  places when we dream. And unless all dreamed alike, you must not ask them to  remember it."  
"Madam," said the Prince sternly, "I have already told your Grace that I am the King's  son of Narnia."  
"And shalt be, dear friend," said the Witch in a soothing voice, as if she was humouring a  child, "shalt be king of many imagined lands in thy fancies."  
 
   
"We've been there, too," snapped Jill. She was very angry because she could feel  enchantment getting hold of her every moment. But of course the very fact that she could  still feel it, showed that it had not yet fully worked.  
"And thou art Queen of Narnia too, I doubt not, pretty one," said the Witch in the same  coaxing, half-mocking tone.  
"I'm nothing of the sort," said Jill, stamping her foot. "We come from another world."  
"Why, this is a prettier game than the other," said the Witch. "Tell us, little maid, where is  this other world? What ships and chariots go between it and ours?"  
Of course a lot of things darted into Jill's head at once: Experiment House, Adela  Pennyfather, her own home, radio-sets, cinemas, cars, aeroplanes, ration-books, queues.  But they seemed dim and far away. (Thrum thrum - thrum - went the strings of the  Witch's instrument.) Jill couldn't remember the names of the things in our world. And this  time it didn't come into her head that she was being enchanted, for now the magic was in  its full strength; and of course, the more enchanted you get, the more certain you feel that  you are not enchanted at all. She found herself saying (and at the moment it was a relief  to say):  
"No. I suppose that other world must be all a dream."  
"Yes. It is all a dream," said the Witch, always thrumming.  
"Yes, all a dream," said Jill.  
"There never was such a world," said the Witch.  
"No," said Jill and Scrubb, "never was such a world."  
"There never was any world but mine," said the Witch.  
"There never was any world but yours," said they.  
Puddleglum was still fighting hard. "I don't know rightly what you all mean by a world,"  he said, talking like a man who hasn't enough air. "But you can play that fiddle till your  fingers drop off, and still you won't make me forget Narnia; and the whole Overworld  too. We'll never see it again, I shouldn't wonder. You may have blotted it out and turned  it dark like this, for all I know. Nothing more likely. But I know I was there once. I've  seen the sky full of stars. I've seen the sun coming up out of the sea of a morning and  sinking behind the mountains at night. And I've seen him up in the midday sky when I  couldn't look at him for brightness."  
 
 Puddleglum's words had a very rousing effect. The other three all breathed again and  looked at one another like people newly awaked.  
"Why, there it is!" cried the Prince. "Of course! The blessing of Aslan upon this honest  Marsh-wiggle. We have all been dreaming, these last few minutes. How could we have  forgotten it? Of course we've all seen the sun."  
"By Jove, so we have!" said Scrubb. "Good for you, Puddleglum! You're the only one of  us with any sense, I do believe."  
Then came the Witch's voice, cooing softly like the voice of a wood-pigeon from the high  elms in an old garden at three o'clock in the middle of a sleepy, summer afternoon; and it  said:  
"What is this sun that you all speak of? Do you mean anything by the word?"  
"Yes, we jolly well do," said Scrubb.  
"Can you tell me what it's like?" asked the Witch (thrum, thrum, thrum, went the strings).  
"Please it your Grace," said the Prince, very coldly and politely. "You see that lamp. It is  round and yellow and gives light to the whole room; and hangeth moreover from the roof.  Now that thing which we call the sun is like the lamp, only far greater and brighter. It  giveth light to the whole Overworld and hangeth in the sky."  
"Hangeth from what, my lord?" asked the Witch; and then, while they were all still  thinking how to answer her, she added, with another of her soft, silver laughs: "You see?  When you try to think out clearly what this sun must be, you cannot tell me. You can  only tell me it is like the lamp. Your sun is a dream; and there is nothing in that dream  that was not copied from the lamp. The lamp is the real thing; the sun is but a tale, a  children's story."  
"Yes, I see now," said Jill in a heavy, hopeless tone. "It must be so." And while she said  this, it seemed to her to be very good sense.  
Slowly and gravely the Witch repeated, "There is no sun." And they all said nothing. She  repeated, in a softer and deeper voice. "There is no sun." After a pause, and after a  struggle in their minds, all four of them said together. "You are right. There is no sun." It  was such a relief to give in and say it.  
"There never was a sun," said the Witch.  
"No. There never was a sun," said the Prince, and the Marsh-wiggle, and the children.  
For the last few minutes Jill had been feeling that there was something she must  remember at all costs. And now she did. But it was dreadfully hard to say it. She felt as if  
 
 huge weights were laid on her lips. At last, with an effort that seemed to take all the good  out of her, she said:  
"There's Aslan."  
"Aslan?" said the Witch, quickening ever so slightly the pace of her thrumming. "What a  pretty name! What does it mean?"  
"He is the great Lion who called us out of our own world," said Scrubb, "and sent us into  this to find Prince Rilian."  
"What is a lion?" asked the Witch.  
"Oh, hang it all!" said Scrubb. "Don't you know? How can we describe it to her? Have  you ever seen a cat?"  
"Surely," said the Queen. "I love cats."  
"Well, a lion is a little bit - only a little bit, mind you like a huge cat - with a mane. At  least, it's not like a horse's mane, you know, it's more like a judge's wig. And it's yellow.  And terrifically strong."  
The Witch shook her head. "I see," she said, "that we should do no better with your lion,  as you call it, than we did with your sun. You have seen lamps, and so you imagined a  bigger and better lamp and called it the sun. You've seen cats, and now you want a bigger  and better cat, and it's to be called a lion. Well, 'tis a pretty makebelieve, though, to say  truth, it would suit you all better if you were younger. And look how you can put nothing  into your make-believe without copying it from the real world, this world of mine, which  is the only world. But even you children are too old for such play. As for you, my lord  Prince, that art a man full grown, fie upon you! Are you not ashamed of such toys?  Come, all of you. Put away these childish tricks. I have work for you all in the real world.  There is no Narnia, no Overworld, no sky, no sun, no Aslan. And now, to bed all. And let  us begin a wiser life tomorrow. But, first, to bed; to sleep; deep sleep, soft pillows, sleep  without foolish dreams."  
The Prince and the two children were standing with their heads hung down, their cheeks  flushed, their eyes half closed; the strength all gone from them; the enchantment almost  complete. But Puddleglum, desperately gathering all his strength, walked over to the fire.  Then he did a very brave thing. He knew it wouldn't hurt him quite as much as it would  hurt a human; for his feet (which were bare) were webbed and hard and coldblooded like  a duck's. But he knew it would hurt him badly enough; and so it did. With his bare foot  he stamped on the fire, grinding a large part of it into ashes on the flat hearth. And three  things happened at once.  
First, the sweet heavy smell grew very much less. For though the whole fire had not been  put out, a good bit of it had, and what remained smelled very largely of burnt Marsh- 
 
 wiggle, which is not at all an enchanting smell. This instantly made everyone's brain far  clearer. The Prince and the children held up their heads again and opened their eyes.  
Secondly, the Witch, in a loud, terrible voice, utterly different from all the sweet tones  she had been using up till now, called out, "What are you doing? Dare to touch my fire  again, mud-filth, and I'll turn the blood to fire inside your veins."  
Thirdly, the pain itself made Puddleglum's head for a moment perfectly clear and he  knew exactly what he really thought. There is nothing like a good shock of pain for  dissolving certain kinds of magic.  
"One word, Ma'am," he said, coming back from the fire; limping, because of the pain.  "One word. All you've been saying is quite right, I shouldn't wonder. I'm a chap who  always liked to know the worst and then put the best face I can on it. So I won't deny any  of what you said. But there's one thing more to be said, even so. Suppose we have only  dreamed, or made up, all those things - trees and grass and sun and moon and stars and  Aslan himself. Suppose we have. Then all I can say is that, in that case, the made-up  things seem a good deal more important than the real ones. Suppose this black pit of a  kingdom of yours is the only world. Well, it strikes me as a pretty poor one. And that's a  funny thing, when you come to think of it. We're just babies making up a game, if you're  right. But four babies playing a game can make a playworld which licks your real world  hollow. That's why I'm going to stand by the play-world. I'm on Aslan's side even if there  isn't any Aslan to lead it. I'm going to live as like a Narnian as I can even if there isn't any  Narnia. So, thanking you kindly for our supper, if these two gentlemen and the young  lady are ready, we're leaving your court at once and setting out in the dark to spend our  lives looking for Overland. Not that our lives will be very long, I should think; but that's a  small loss if the world's as dull a place as you say."  
"Oh, hurrah! Good old Puddleglum!" cried Scrubb and Jill. But the Prince shouted  suddenly, "Ware! Look to the Witch."  
When they did look their hair nearly stood on end.  
The instrument dropped from her hands. Her arms appeared to be fastened to her sides.  Her legs were intertwined with each other, and her feet had disappeared. The long green  train of her skirt thickened and grew solid, and seemed to be all one piece with the  writhing green pillar of her interlocked legs. And that writhing green pillar was curving  and swaying as if it had no joints, or else were all joints. Her head was thrown far back  and while her nose grew longer and longer, every other part of her face seemed to  disappear, except her eyes. Huge flaming eyes they were now, without brows or lashes.  All this takes time to write down; it happened so quickly that there was only just time to  see it. Long before there was time to do anything, the change was complete, and the great  serpent which the Witch had become, green as poison, thick as Jill's waist, had flung two  or three coils of its loathsome body round the Prince's legs. Quick as lightning another  great loop darted round, intending to pinion his sword-arm to his side. But the Prince was  
 
 just in time. He raised his arms and got them clear: the living knot closed only round his  chest - ready to crack his ribs like firewood when it drew tight.  
The Prince caught the creature's neck in his left hand, trying to squeeze it till it choked.  This held its face (if you could call it a face) about five inches from his own. The forked  tongue flickered horribly in and out, but could not reach him. With his right hand he drew  back his sword for the strongest blow he could give. Meanwhile Scrubb and Puddleglum  had drawn their weapons and rushed to his aid. All three blows fell at once: Scrubb's  (which did not even pierce the scales and did no good) on the body of the snake below  the Prince's hand, but the Prince's own blow and Puddleglum's both on its neck. Even that  did not quite kill it, though it began to loosen its hold on Rilian's legs and chest. With  repeated blows they hacked off its head. The horrible thing went on coiling and moving  like a bit of wire long after it had died; and the floor, as you may imagine, was a nasty  mess.  
The Prince, when he had breath, said, "Gentlemen, I thank you." Then the three  conquerors stood staring at one another and panting, without another word, for a long  time. Jill had very wisely sat down and was keeping quiet; she was saying to herself, "I  do hope I don't faint or blub - or do anything idiotic."  
"My royal mother is avenged," said Rilian presently. "This is undoubtedly the same  worm that I pursued in vain by the fountain in the forest of Narnia, so many years ago.  All these years I have been the slave of my mother's slayer. Yet I am glad, gentlemen,  that the foul Witch took to her serpent form at the last. It would not have suited well  either with my heart or with my honour to have slain a woman. But look to the lady." He  meant Jill.  
"I'm all right, thanks," said she.  
"Damsel," said the Prince, bowing to her. "You are of a high courage, and therefore, I  doubt not, you come of a noble blood in your own world. But come, friends. Here is  some wine left. Let us refresh ourselves and each pledge his fellows. After that, to our  plans."  
"A jolly good idea, Sir," said Scrubb.  
  
  
CHAPTER THIRTEEN  
UNDERLAND WITHOUT THE QUEEN  
  
ALL felt that they had earned what Scrubb called a "breather". The Witch had locked the  door and told the Earthmen not to disturb her, so there was no danger of interruption for  
 
 the present. Their first business was, of course, Puddleglum's burnt foot. A couple of  clean shirts from the Prince's bedroom, torn into strips, and well greased on the inside  with butter and salad oil off the supper table, made a fairly good dressing. When this had  been applied, they all sat down and had a little refreshment, and discussed plans for  escaping from the Underworld.  
Rilian explained that there were quite a lot of outlets by which one could get to the  surface; he had been taken out through most of them at one time or another. But he had  never gone out alone, only with the Witch; and he had always reached these outlets by  going in a ship across the Sunless Sea. What the Earthmen would say if he went down to  the harbour without the Witch, and with four strangers, and simply ordered a ship, no one  could guess. But most likely they would ask awkward questions. On the other hand the  new outlet, the one for the invasion of Overworld, was on this side of the sea, and only a  few miles away. The Prince knew that it was nearly finished; only a few feet of earth  divided the diggings from the outer air. It was even possible that it had now been quite  finished. Perhaps the Witch had come back to tell him this and to start the attack. Even if  it was not, they could probably dig themselves out by that route in a few hours - if they  could only get there without being stopped, and if only they found the diggings  unguarded. But those were the difficulties.  
"If you ask me -" began Puddleglum, when Scrubb interrupted.  
"I say," he asked, "what's that noise?"  
"I've been wondering that for some time!" said Jill.  
They had all, in fact, been hearing the noise but it had begun and increased so gradually  that they did not know when they had first noticed it. For a time it had been only a vague  disquiet like gentle winds, or traffic very far away. Then it swelled to a murmur like the  sea. Then came rumblings and rushings. Now there seemed to be voices as well and also  a steady roaring that was not voices.  
"By the Lion," said Prince Rilian, "it seems this silent land has found a tongue at last." He  rose, walked to the window, and drew aside the curtains. The others crowded round him  to look out.  
The very first thing they noticed was a great red glow. Its reflection made a red patch on  the roof of the Underworld thousands of feet above them, so that they could see a rocky  ceiling which had perhaps been hidden in darkness ever since the world was made. The  glow itself came from the far side of the city so that many buildings, grim and great,  stood up blackly against it. But it also cast its light down many streets that ran from it  towards the castle. And in those streets something very strange was going on. The  closely-packed, silent crowds of Earthmen had vanished. Instead, there were figures  darting about by ones, or twos, or threes. They behaved like people who do not want to  be seen: lurking in shadow behind buttresses or in doorways, and then moving quickly  across the open into fresh places of hiding. But the strangest thing of all, to anyone who  
 
 knew the gnomes, was the noise. Shouts and cries came from all directions. But from the  harbour there came a low, rumbling roar which grew steadily louder and was already  shaking the whole city.  
"What's happened to the Earthmen?" said Scrubb. "Is it them shouting?"  
"'Tis hardly possible," said the Prince. "I never heard one of the rascals so much as speak  with a loud voice in all the weary years of my bondage. Some new devilry, I don't doubt."  
"And what is that red light over there?" asked Jill. "Is something on fire?"  
"If you ask me," said Puddleglum, "I should say that was the central fires of the Earth  breaking out to make a new volcano. We'll be in the middle of it, I shouldn't wonder."  
"Look at that ship!" said Scrubb. "Why's it coming on so quickly? No one's rowing it."  
"Look, look!" said the Prince. "The ship is already far this side of the harbour - it is in the  street. Look! All the ships are driving into the city! By my head, the sea's rising. The  flood is upon us. Aslan be praised, this castle stands on high ground. But the water comes  on grimly fast."  
"Oh, what can be happening?" cried Jill. "Fire and water and all those people dodging  about the streets."  
"I'll tell you what it is," said Puddleglum. "That Witch has laid a train of magic spells so  that whenever she was killed, at that same moment her whole kingdom would fall to  pieces. She's the sort that wouldn't so much mind dying herself if she knew that the chap  who killed her was going to be burned, or buried, or drowned five minutes later."  
"Hast hit it, friend wiggle," said the Prince. "When our swords hacked off the Witch's  head, that stroke ended all her magic works, and now the Deep Lands are falling to  pieces. We are looking on the end of Underworld."  
"That's it, Sir," said Puddleglum. "Unless it should happen to be the end of the whole  world."  
"But are we just going to stay here and - wait?" gasped Jill.  
"Not by my counsel," said the Prince. "I would save my horse, Coalblack, and the Witch's  Snowflake (a noble beast and worthy of a better mistress) which are both stabled in the  courtyard. After that, let us make shift to get out to high ground and pray that we shall  find an outlet. The horses can carry two each at need, and if we put them to it they may  outstrip the flood."  
"Will your Highness not put on armour?" asked Puddleglum. "I don't like the look of  those" - and he pointed down to the street. Everyone looked down. Dozens of creatures  
 
 (and now that they were close, they obviously were Earthmen) were coming up from the  direction of the harbour. But they were not moving like an aimless crowd. They behaved  like modern soldiers in an attack, making rushes and taking cover, anxious not to be seen  from the castle windows.  
"I dare not see the inside of that armour again," said the Prince. "I rode in it as in a  movable dungeon, and it stinks of magic and slavery. But I will take the shield."  
He left the room and returned with a strange light in his eyes a moment later.  
"Look, friends," he said, holding out the shield towards them. "An hour ago it was black  and without device; and now, this." The shield had turned bright as silver, and on it,  redder than blood or cherries, was the figure of the Lion.  
"Doubtless," said the Prince, "this signifies that Aslan will be our good lord, whether he  means us to live or die. And all's one, for that. Now, by my counsel, we shall all kneel  and kiss his likeness, and then all shake hands one with another, as true friends that may  shortly be parted. And then, let us descend into the city and take the adventure that is sent  us."  
And they all did as the Prince had said. But when Scrubb shook hands with Jill, he said,  "So long, Jill. Sorry I've been a funk and so ratty. I hope you get safe home," and Jill said,  "So long, Eustace. And I'm sorry I've been such a pig." And this was the first time they  had ever used Christian names, because one didn't do it at school.  
The Prince unlocked the door and they all went down the stairs: three of them with drawn  swords, and Jill with drawn knife. The attendants had vanished and the great room at the  foot of the Prince's stairs was empty. The grey, doleful lamps were still burning and by  their light they had no difficulty in passing gallery after gallery and descending stairway  after stairway. The noises from outside the castle were not so easily heard here as they  had been in the room above. Inside the house all was still as death, and deserted. It was as  they turned a corner into the great hall on the ground floor that they met their first  Earthman - a fat, whitish creature with a very piglike face who was gobbling up all the  remains of food on the tables. It squealed (the squeal also was very like a pig's) and  darted under a bench, whisking its long tail out of Puddleglum's reach in the nick of time.  Then it rushed away through the far door too quickly to be followed.  
From the hall they came out into the courtyard. Jill, who went to a riding school in the  holidays, had just noticed the smell of a stable (a very nice, honest, homely smell it is to  meet in a place like Underland) when Eustace said, "Great Scott! Look at that!" A  magnificent rocket had risen from somewhere beyond the castle walls and broken into  green stars.  
"Fireworks!" said Jill in a puzzled voice.  
 
 "Yes," said Eustace, "but you can't imagine those Earth people letting them off for fun! It  must be a signal."  
"And means no good to us, I'll be bound," said Puddleglum.  
"Friends," said the Prince, "when once a man is launched on such an adventure as this, he  must bid farewell to hopes and fears, otherwise death or deliverance will both come too  late to save his honour and his reason. Ho, my beauties" (he was now opening the stable  door). "Hey cousins! Steady, Coalblack! Softly now, Snowflake! You are not forgotten."  
The horses were both frightened by the strange lights and the noises. Jill, who had been  so cowardly about going through a black hole betweeen one cave and another, went in  without fear between the stamping and snorting beasts, and she and the Prince had them  saddled and bridled in a few minutes. Very fine they looked as they came out into the  courtyard, tossing their heads. Jill mounted Snowflake, and Puddleglum got up behind  her. Eustace got up behind the Prince on Coalblack. Then with a great echo of hoofs, they  rode out of the main gateway into the street.  
"Not much danger of being burnt. That's the bright side of it," observed Puddleglum,  pointing to their right. There, hardly a hundred yards away, lapping against the walls of  the houses, was water.  
"Courage!" said the Prince. "The road there goes down steeply. That water has climbed  only half up the greatest hill in the city. It might come so near in the first half-hour and  come no nearer in the next two. My fear is more of that -" and he pointed with his sword  to a great tall Earthman with boar's tusks, followed by six others of assorted shapes and  sizes who had just dashed out of a side street and stepped into the shadow of the houses  where no one could see them.  
The Prince led them, aiming always in the direction of the glowing red light but a little to  the left of it. His plan was to get round the fire (if it was a fire) on to high ground, in hope  that they might find their way to the new diggings. Unlike the other three, he seemed to  be almost enjoying himself. He whistled as he rode, and sang snatches of an old song  about Corin Thunder-fist of Archenland. The truth is, he was so glad at being free from  his long enchantment that all dangers seemed a game in comparison. But the rest found it  an eerie journey.  
Behind them was the sound of clashing and entangled ships, and the rumble of collapsing  buildings. Overhead was the great patch of lurid light on the roof of the Underworld.  Ahead was the mysterious glow, which did not seem to grow any bigger. From the same  direction came a continual hubbub of shouts, screams, cat-calls, laughter, squeals, and  bellowings; and fireworks of all sorts rose in the dark air. No one could guess what they  meant. Nearer to them, the city was partly lit up by the red glow, and partly by the very  different light of the dreary Gnome lamps. But there were many places where neither of  these lights fell, and those places were jet-black. And in and out of those places the  shapes of Earthmen were darting and slipping all the time, always with their eyes fixed  
 
 on the travellers, always trying to keep out of sight themselves. There were big faces and  little faces, huge eyes like fishes' eyes and little eyes like bears'. There were feathers and  bristles, horns and tusks, noses like whipcord, and chins so long that they looked like  beards. Every now and then a group of them would get too big or come too near. Then  the Prince would brandish his sword and make a show of charging them. And the  creatures, with all manner of hootings, squeakings, and cluckings, would dive away into  the darkness.  
But when they had climbed many steep streets and were far away from the flood, and  almost out of the town on the inland side, it began to be more serious. They were now  close to the red glow and nearly on a level with it, though they still could not see what it  really was. But by its light they could see their enemies more clearly. Hundreds - perhaps  a few thousands - of gnomes were all moving towards it. But they were doing so in short  rushes, and whenever they stopped, they turned and faced the travellers.  
"If your Highness asked me," said Puddleglum, "I'd say those fellows were meaning to  cut us off in front."  
"That was my thought too, Puddleglum," said the Prince. "And we can never fight our  way through so many. Hark you! Let us ride forth close by the edge of yonder house.  And even as we reach it, do you slip off into its shadow. The Lady and I will go forward  a few paces. Some of these devils will follow us, I doubt not; they are thick behind us. Do  you, who have long arms, take one alive if you may, as it passes your ambush. We may  get a true tale of it or learn what is their quarrel against us."  
"But won't the others all come rushing at us to rescue the one we catch," said Jill in a  voice not so steady as she tried to make it.  
"Then, Madam," said the Prince, "you shall see us die fighting around you, and you must  commend yourself to the Lion. Now, good Puddleglum."  
The Marsh-wiggle slipped off into the shadow as quickly as a cat. The others, for a  sickening minute or so, went forward at a walk. Then suddenly from behind them there  broke out a series of blood-curdling screams, mixed with the familiar voice of  Puddleglum, saying, "Now then! Don't cry out before you're hurt, or you will be hurt,  see? Anyone would think it was a pig being killed."  
"That was good hunting," exclaimed the Prince, immediately turning Coalblack and  coming back to the corner of the house. "Eustace," he said, "of your courtesy, take  Coalblack's head." Then he dismounted, and all three gazed in silence while Puddleglum  pulled his catch out into the light. It was a most miserable little gnome, only about three  feet long. It had a sort of ridge, like a cock's comb (only hard), on the top of its head,  little pink eyes, and a mouth and chin so large and round that its face looked like that of a  pigmy hippopotamus. If they had not been in such a tight place, they would have burst  into laughter at the sight of it.  
 
 "Now, Earthman," said the Prince, standing over it and holding his sword point very near  the prisoner's neck, "speak, up, like an honest gnome, and you shall go free. Play the  knave with us, and you are but a dead Earthman. Good Puddleglum, how can it speak  while you hold its mouth tight shut?"  
"No, and it can't bite either," said Puddleglum. "If I had the silly soft hands that you  humans have (saving your Highness's reverence) I'd have been all over blood by now.  Yet even a Marsh-wiggle gets tired of being chewed.'  
"Sirrah," said the Prince to the gnome, "one bite and you die. Let its mouth open,  Puddleglum."  
"Oo-ee-ee," squealed the Earthman, "let me go, let me go. It isn't me. I didn't do it."  
"Didn't do what?" asked Puddleglum.  
"Whatever your Honours say I did do," answered the creature.  
"Tell me your name," said the Prince, "and what you Earthmen are all about today."  
"Oh please, your Honours, please, kind gentlemen," whimpered the gnome. "Promise you  will not tell the Queen's grace anything I say."  
"The Queen's grace, as you call her," said the Prince sternly, "is dead. I killed her  myself."  
"What!" cried the gnome, opening its ridiculous mouth wider and wider in astonishment.  "Dead? The Witch dead? And by your Honour's hand?" It gave a huge sigh of relief and  added, "Why then your Honour is a friend!"  
The Prince withdrew his sword an inch or so. Puddleglum let the creature sit up. It looked  round on the four travellers with its twinkling, red eyes, chuckled once or twice, and  began.  
  
  
CHAPTER FOURTEEN  
THE BOTTOM OF THE WORLD  
  
"MY name is Golg," said the gnome. "And I'll tell your Honours all I know. About an  hour ago we were all going about our work - her work, I should say - sad and silent, same  as we've done any other day for years and years. Then there came a great crash and bang.  
 
 As soon as they heard it, everyone says to himself, I haven't had a song or a dance or let  off a squib for a long time; why's that? And everyone thinks to himself, Why, I must have  been enchanted. And then everyone says to himself, I'm blessed if I know why I'm  carrying this load, and I'm not going to carry it any farther: that's that. And down we all  throw our sacks and bundles and tools. Then everyone turns and sees the great red glow  over yonder. And everyone says to himself, What's that? and everyone answers himself  and says, There's a crack or chasm split open and a nice warm glow coming up through it  from the Really Deep Land, a thousand fathom under us."  
"Great Scott," exclaimed Eustace, "are there other lands still lower down?"  
"Oh yes, your Honour," said Golg. "Lovely places; what we call the Land of Bism. This  country where we are now, the Witch's country, is what we call the Shallow Lands. It's a  good deal too near the surface to suit us. Ugh! You might almost as well be living  outside, on the surface itself. You see, we're all poor gnomes from Bism whom the Witch  has called up here by magic to work for her. But we'd forgotten all about it till that crash  came and the spell broke. We didn't know who we were or where we belonged. We  couldn't do anything, or think anything, except what she put into our heads. And it was  glum and gloomy things she put there all those years. I've nearly forgotten how to make a  joke or dance a jig. But the moment the bang came and the chasm opened and the sea  began rising, it all came back. And of course we all set off as quick as we could to get  down the crack and home to our own place. And you can see them over there all letting  off rockets and standing on their heads for joy. And I'll be very obliged to your Honours  if you'll soon let me go and join in."  
"I think this is simply splendid," said Jill. "I'm so glad we freed the gnomes as well as  ourselves when we cut off the Witch's head! And I'm so glad they aren't really horrid and  gloomy any more than the Prince really was well, what he seemed like."  
"That's all very well, Pole," said Puddleglum cautiously. "But those gnomes didn't look to  me like chaps who were just running away. It looked more like military formations, if  you ask me. Do you look me in the face, Mr Golg, and tell me you weren't preparing for  battle?"  
"Of course we were, your Honour," said Golg. "You see, we didn't know the Witch was  dead. We thought she'd be watching from the castle. We were trying to slip away without  being seen. And then when you three came out with swords and horses, of course  everyone says to himself, Here it comes: not knowing that his Honour wasn't on the  Witch's side. And we were determined to fight like anything rather than give up the hope  of going back to Bism."  
"I'll be sworn 'tis an honest gnome," said the Prince. "Let go of it, friend Puddleglum. As  for me, good Golg, I have been enchanted like you and your fellows, and have but newly  remembered myself. And now, one question more. Do you know the way to those new  diggings, by which the sorceress meant to lead out an army against Overland?"  
 
 "Ee-ee-ee!" squeaked Golg. "Yes, I know that terrible road. I will show you where it  begins. But it is no manner of use your Honour asking me to go with you on it. I'll die  rather."  
"Why?" asked Eustace anxiously. "What's so dreadful about it?"  
"Too near the top, the outside," said Golg, shuddering. "That was the worst thing the  Witch did to us. We were going to be led out into the open - on to the outside of the  world. They say there's no roof at all there; only a horrible great emptiness called the sky.  And the diggings have gone so far that a few strokes of the pick would bring you out to it.  I wouldn't dare go near them."  
"Hurrah! Now you're talking!" cried Eustace, and Jill said, "But it's not horrid at all up  there. We like it. We live there."  
"I know you Overlanders live there," said Golg. "But I thought it was because you  couldn't find your way down inside. You can't really like it - crawling about like flies on  the top of the world!"  
"What about showing us the road at once?" said Puddleglum.  
"In a good hour," cried the Prince. The whole party set out. The Prince remounted his  charger, Puddleglum climbed up behind Jill, and Golg led the way. As he went, he kept  shouting out the good news that the Witch was dead and that the four Overlanders were  not dangerous. And those who heard him shouted it on to others, so that in a few minutes  the whole of Underland was ringing with shouts and cheers, and gnomes by hundreds and  thousands, leaping, turning cart-wheels, standing on their heads, playing leap-frog, and  letting off huge crackers, came pressing round Coalblack and Snowflake. And the Prince  had to tell the story of his own enchantment and deliverance at least ten times.  
In this way they came to the edge of the chasm. It was about a thousand feet long and  perhaps two hundred wide. They dismounted from their horses and came to the edge, and  looked down into it. A strong heat smote up into their faces, mixed with a smell which  was quite unlike any they had ever smelled. It was rich, sharp, exciting, and made you  sneeze. The depth of the chasm was so bright that at first it dazzled their eyes and they  could see nothing. When they got used to it they thought they could make out a river of  fire, and, on the banks of that river, what seemed to be fields and groves of an  unbearable, hot brilliance - though they were dim compared with the river. There were  blues, reds, greens, and whites all jumbled together: a very good stained-glass window  with the tropical sun staring straight through it at midday might have something the same  effect. Down the rugged sides of the chasm, looking black like flies against all that fiery  light, hundreds of Earthmen were climbing.  
"Your honours," said Golg (and when they turned to look at him they could see nothing  but blackness for a few minutes, their eyes were so dazzled). "Your honours, why don't  
 
 you come down to Bism? You'd be happier there than in that cold, unprotected, naked  country out on top. Or at least come down for a short visit."  
Jill took it for granted that none of the others would listen to such an idea for a moment.  To her horror she heard the Prince saying:  
"Truly, friend Golg, I have half a mind to come down with you. For this is a marvellous  adventure, and it may be no mortal man has ever looked into Bism before or will ever  have the chance again. And I know not how, as the years pass, I shall bear to remember  that it was once in my power to have probed the uttermost pit of Earth and that I forbore.  But could a man live there? You do not swim in the fire-river itself?"  
"Oh no, your Honour. Not we. It's only salamanders live in the fire itself."  
"What kind of beast is your salamander?" asked the Prince.  
"It is hard to tell their kind, your Honour," said Golg. "For they are too white-hot to look  at. But they are most like small dragons. They speak to us out of the fire. They are  wonderfully clever with their tongues: very witty and eloquent."  
Jill glanced hastily at Eustace. She had felt sure that he would like the idea of sliding  down that chasm even less than she did. Her heart sank as she saw that his face was quite  changed. He looked much more like the Prince than like the old Scrubb at Experiment  House. For all his adventures, and the days when he had sailed with King Caspian, were  coming back to him.  
"Your Highness," he said. "If my old friend Reepicheep the Mouse were here, he would  say we could not now refuse the adventures of Bism without a great impeachment to our  honour."  
"Down there," said Golg, "I could show you real gold, real silver, real diamonds."  
"Bosh!" said Jill rudely. "As if we didn't know that we're below the deepest mines even  here."  
"Yes," said Golg. "I have heard of those little scratches in the crust that you Topdwellers  call mines. But that's where you get dead gold, dead silver, dead gems. Down in Bism we  have them alive and growing. There I'll pick you bunches of rubies that you can eat and  squeeze you a cup full of diamond-juice. You won't care much about fingering the cold,  dead treasures of your shallow mines after you have tasted the live ones of Bism."  
"My father went to the world's end," said Rilian thoughtfully. "It would be a marvellous  thing if his son went to the bottom of the world."  
 
 "If your Highness wants to see your father while he's still alive, which I think he'd  prefer," said Puddleglum, "it's about time we were getting on to that road to the  diggings."  
"And I won't go down that hole, whatever anyone says," added Jill.  
"Why, if your Honours are really set to go back to Overworld," said Golg, "there is one  bit of the road that's rather lower than this. And perhaps, if that flood's still rising -"  
"Oh, do, do, do come on!" begged Jill.  
"I fear it must be so," said the Prince with a deep sigh. "But I have left half of my heart in  the land of Bism."  
"Please!" begged Jill.  
"Where is the road?" asked Puddleglum.  
"There are lamps all the way," said Golg. "Your Honour can see the beginning of the road  on the far side of the chasm."  
"How long will the lamps burn for?" asked Puddleglum.  
At that moment a hissing, scorching voice like the voice of Fire itself (they wondered  afterwards if it could have been a salamander's) came whistling up out of the very depths  of Bism.  
"Quick! Quick! Quick! To the cliffs, to the cliffs, to the cliffs!" it said. "The rift closes. It  closes. It closes. Quick! Quick!" And at the same time, with ear-shattering cracks and  creaks, the rocks moved. Already, while they looked, the chasm was narrower. From  every side belated gnomes were rushing into it. They would not wait to climb down the  rocks. They flung themselves headlong and, either because so strong a blast of hot air  was beating up from the bottom, or for some other reason, they could be seen floating  downwards like leaves. Thicker and thicker they floated, till their blackness almost  blotted out the fiery river and the groves of live gems. "Good-bye to your Honours. I'm  off," shouted Golg, and dived. Only a few were left to follow him. The chasm was now  no broader than a stream. Now it was narrow as the slit in a pillarbox. Now it was only an  intensely bright thread. Then, with a shock like a thousand goods trains crashing into a  thousand pairs of buffers, the lips of rock closed. The hot, maddening smell vanished.  The travellers were alone in an Underworld which now looked far blacker than before.  Pale, dim, and dreary, the lamps marked the direction of the road.  
"Now," said Puddleglum, "it's ten to one we've already stayed too long, but we may as  well make a try. Those lamps will give out in five minutes, I shouldn't wonder."  
 
 They urged the horses to a canter and thundered along the dusky road in fine style. But  almost at once it began going downhill. They would have thought Golg had sent them the  wrong way if they had not seen, on the other side of the valley, the lamps going on and  upwards as far as the eye could reach. But at the bottom of the valley the lamps shone on  moving water.  
"Haste," cried the Prince. They galloped down the slope. It would have been nasty  enough at the bottom even five minutes later for the tide was running up the valley like a  mill-race, and if it had come to swimming, the horses could hardly have won over. But it  was still only a foot or two deep, and though it swished terribly round the horses' legs,  they reached the far side in safety.  
Then began the slow, weary march uphill with nothing ahead to look at but the pale  lamps which went up and up as far as the eye could reach. When they looked back they  could see the water spreading. All the hills of Underland were now islands, and it was  only on those islands that the lamps remained. Every moment some distant light  vanished. Soon there would be total darkness everywhere except on the road they were  following; and even on the lower part of it behind them, though no lamps had yet gone  out, the lamplight shone on water.  
Although they had good reason for hurrying, the horses could not go on for ever without  a rest. They halted: and in silence they could hear the lapping of water.  
"I wonder is what's his name - Father Time - flooded out now," said Jill. "And all those  queer sleeping animals."  
"I don't think we're as high as that," said Eustace. "Don't you remember how we had to go  downhill to reach the sunless sea? I shouldn't think the water has reached Father Time's  cave yet."  
"That's as may be," said Puddleglum. "I'm more interested in the lamps on this road.  Look a bit sickly, don't they?"  
"They always did," said Jill.  
"Aye," said Puddleglum. "But they're greener now."  
"You don't mean to say you think they're going out?" cried Eustace.  
"Well, however they work, you can't expect them to last for ever, you know," replied the  Marsh-wiggle. "But don't let your spirits down, Scrubb. I've got my eye on the water too,  and I don't think it's rising so fast as it did."  
"Small comfort, friend," said the Prince. "If we cannot find our way out. I cry you mercy,  all. I am to blame for my pride and fantasy which delayed us by the mouth of the land of  Bism. Now, let us ride on."  
 
   
During the hour or so that followed Jill sometimes thought that Puddleglum was right  about the lamps, and sometimes thought it was only her imagination. Meanwhile the land  was changing. The roof of Underland was so near that even by that dull light they could  now see it quite distinctly. And the great, rugged walls of Underland could be seen  drawing closer on each side. The road, in fact, was leading them up into a steep tunnel.  They began to pass picks and shovels and barrows and other signs that the diggers had  recently been at work. If only one could be sure of getting out, all this was very cheering.  But the thought of going on into a hole that would get narrower and narrower, and harder  to turn back in, was very unpleasant.  
At last the roof was so low that Puddleglum and the Prince knocked their heads against it.  The party dismounted and led the horses. The road was uneven here and one had to pick  one's steps with some care. That was how Jill noticed the growing darkness. There was  no doubt about it now. The faces of the others looked strange and ghastly in the green  glow. Then all at once (she couldn't help it) Jill gave a little scream. One light, the next  one ahead, went out altogether. The one behind them did the same. Then they were in  absolute darkness.  
"Courage, friends," came Prince Rilian's voice. "Whether we live or die Aslan will be our  good lord."  
"That's right, Sir," said Puddleglum's voice. "And you must always remember there's one  good thing about being trapped down here: it'll save funeral expenses."  
Jill held her tongue. (If you don't want other people to know how frightened you are, this  is always a wise thing to do; it's your voice that gives you away.)  
"We might as well go on as stand here," said Eustace; and when she heard the tremble in  his voice, Jill knew how wise she'd been not to trust her own.  
Puddleglum and Eustace went first with their arms stretched out in front of them, for fear  of blundering into anything; Jill and the Prince followed, leading the horses.  
"I say," came Eustace's voice much later, "are my eyes going queer or is there a patch of  light up there?"  
Before anyone could answer him, Puddleglum called out: "Stop. I'm up against a dead  end. And it's earth, not rock. What were you saying, Scrubb?"  
"By the Lion," said the Prince, "Eustace is right. There is a sort of -"  
"But it's not daylight," said Jill. "It's only a cold blue sort of light."  
"Better than nothing, though," said Eustace. "Can we get up to it?"  
 
 "It's not right overhead," said Puddleglum. "It's above us, but it's in this wall that I've run  into. How would it be, Pole, if you got on my shoulders and saw whether you could get  up to it?"  
  
CHAPTER FIFTEEN  
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF JILL  
  
THE patch of light did not show up anything down in the darkness where they were  standing. The others could only hear, not see, Jill's efforts to get on to the Marsh-wiggle's  back. That is, they heard him saying, "You needn't put your finger in my eye," and, "Nor  your foot in my mouth either," and, "That's more like it," and, "Now, I'll hold on to your  legs. That'll leave your arms free to steady yourself against the earth."  
Then they looked up and soon they saw the black shape of Jill's head against the patch of  light.  
"Well?" they all shouted up anxiously.  
"It's a hole," called Jill's voice. "I could get through it if I was a little bit higher."  
"What do you see through it?" asked Eustace.  
"Nothing much yet," said Jill. "I say, Puddleglum, let go my legs so that I can stand on  your shoulders instead of sitting on them. I can steady myself all right against the edge."  
They could hear her moving and then much more of her came into sight against the  greyness of the opening; in fact all of her down to the waist.  
"I say -" began Jill, but suddenly broke off with a cry: not a sharp cry. It sounded more as  if her mouth had been muffled up or had something pushed into it. After that she found  her voice and seemed to be shouting out as loud as she could, but they couldn't hear the  words. Two things then happened at the same moment. The patch of light was completely  blocked up for a second or so; and they heard both a scuffling, struggling sound and the  voice of the Marsh-wiggle gasping: "Quick! Help! Hold on to her legs.  
Someone's pulling her. There! No, here. Too late!"  
The opening, and the cold light which filled it, were now perfectly clear again. Jill had  vanished.  
"Jill! Jill!" they shouted frantically, but there was no answer.  
 
 "Why the dickens couldn't you have held her feet?" said Eustace.  
"I don't know, Scrubb," groaned Puddleglum. "Born to be a misfit, I shouldn't wonder.  Fated. Fated to be Pole's death, just as I was fated to eat Talking Stag at Harfang. Not that  it isn't my own fault as well, of course."  
"This is the greatest shame and sorrow that could have fallen on us," said the Prince. "We  have sent a brave lady into the hands of enemies and stayed behind in safety."  
"Don't paint it too black, Sir," said Puddleglum. "We're not very safe except for death by  starvation in this hole."  
"I wonder am I small enough to get through where Jill did?" said Eustace.  
What had really happened to Jill was this. As soon as she got her head out of the hole she  found that she was looking down as if from an upstairs window, not up as if through a  trap-door. She had been so long in the dark that her eyes couldn't at first take in what they  were seeing: except that she was not looking at the daylit, sunny world which she so  wanted to see. The air seemed to be deadly cold, and the light was pale and blue. There  was also a good deal of noise going on and a lot of white objects flying about in the air. It  was at that moment that she had shouted down to Puddleglum to let her stand up on his  shoulders.  
When she had done this, she could see and hear a good deal better. The noises she had  been hearing turned out to be of two kinds: the rhythmical thump of several feet, and the  music of four fiddles, three flutes, and a drum. She also got her own position clear. She  was looking out of a hole in a steep bank which sloped down and reached the level about  fourteen feet below her. Everything was very white. A lot of people were moving about.  Then she gasped! The people were trim little Fauns, and Dryads with leafcrowned hair  floating behind them. For a second they looked as if they were moving anyhow; then she  saw that they were really doing a dance - a dance with so many complicated steps and  figures that it took you some time to understand it. Then it came over her like a  thunderclap that the pale, blue light was really moonlight, and the white stuff on the  ground was really snow. And of course! There were the stars staring in a black frosty sky  overhead. And the tall black things behind the dancers were trees. They had not only got  out into the upper world at last, but had come out in the heart of Narnia. Jill felt she could  have fainted with delight; and the music - the wild music, intensely sweet and yet just the  least bit eerie too, and full of good magic as the Witch's thrumming had been full of bad  magic - made her feel it all the more.  
All this takes a long time to tell, but of course it took a very short time to see. Jill turned  almost at once to shout down to the others, "I say! It's all right. We're out, and we're  home." But the reason she never got further than "I say" was this. Circling round and  round the dancers was a ring of Dwarfs, all dressed in their finest clothes; mostly scarlet  with fur-lined hoods and golden tassels and big furry top-boots. As they circled round  they were all diligently throwing snowballs. (Those were the white things that Jill had  
 
 seen flying through the air.) They weren't throwing them at the dancers as silly boys  might have been doing in England. They were throwing them through the dance in such  perfect time with the music and with such perfect aim that if all the dancers were in  exactly the right places at exactly the right moments, no one would be hit. This is called  the Great Snow Dance and it is done every year in Narnia on the first moonlit night when  there is snow on the ground. Of course it is a kind of game as well as a dance, because  every now and then some dancer will be the least little bit wrong and get a snowball in  the face, and then everyone laughs. But a good team of dancers, Dwarfs, and musicians  will keep it up for hours without a single hit. On fine nights when the cold and the drum- taps, and the hooting of the owls, and the moonlight, have got into their wild, woodland  blood and made it even wilder, they will dance till daybreak. I wish you could see it for  yourselves.  
What had stopped Jill when she got as far as the say of "I say" was of course simply a  fine big snowball that came sailing through the dance from a Dwarf on the far side and  got her fair and square in the mouth. She didn't in the least mind; twenty snowballs would  not have damped her spirits at that moment. But however happy you are feeling, you can't  talk with your mouth full of snow. And when, after considerable spluttering, she could  speak again, she quite forgot in her excitement that the others, down in the dark, behind  her, still didn't know the good news. She simply leaned as far out of the hole as she could,  and yelled to the dancers.  
"Help! Help! We're buried in the hill. Come and dig us out."  
The Narnians, who had not even noticed the little hole in the hillside, were of course very  surprised, and looked about in several wrong directions before they found out where the  voice was coming from. But when they caught sight of Jill they all came running towards  her, and as many as could scrambled up the bank, and a dozen or more hands were  stretched up to help her. And Jill caught hold of them and thus got out of the hole and  came slithering down the bank head first, and then picked herself up and said:  
"Oh, do go and dig the others out. There are three others, besides the horses. And one of  them is Prince Rilian."  
She was already in the middle of a crowd when she said this, for besides the dancers all  sorts of people who had been watching the dance, and whom she had not seen at first,  came running up. Squirrels came out of the trees in showers, and so did Owls. Hedgehogs  came waddling as fast as their short legs would carry them. Bears and Badgers followed  at a slower pace. A great Panther, twitching its tail in excitement, was the last to join the  party.  
But as soon as they understood what Jill was saying, they all became active. "Pick and  shovel, boys, pick and shovel. Off for our tools!" said the Dwarfs, and dashed away into  the woods at top speed. "Wake up some Moles, they're the chaps for digging. They're  quite as good as Dwarfs," said a voice. "What was that she said about Prince Rilian?" said  another. "Hush!" said the Panther. "The poor child's crazed, and no wonder after being  
 
 lost inside the hill. She doesn't know what she's saying." "That's right," said an old Bear.  "Why, she said Prince Rilian was a horse!" "No, she didn't," said a Squirrel, very pert.  "Yes, she did," said another Squirrel, even perter.  
"It's quite t-t-t-true. D-d-don't be so silly," said Jill. She spoke like that because her teeth  were now chattering with the cold.  
Immediately one of the Dryads flung round her a furry cloak which some Dwarf had  dropped when he rushed to fetch his mining tools, and an obliging Faun trotted off among  the trees to a place where Jill could see firelight in the mouth of a cave, to get her a hot  drink. But before it came, all the Dwarfs reappeared with spades and pick-axes and  charged at the hillside. Then Jill heard cries of "Hi! What are you doing? Put that sword  down," and "Now, young 'un: none of that," and, "He's a vicious one, now, isn't he?" Jill  hurried to the spot and didn't know whether to laugh or cry when she saw Eustace's face,  very pale and dirty, projecting from the blackness of the hole, and Eustace's right hand  brandishing a sword with which he made lunges at anyone who came near him.  
For of course Eustace had been having a very different time from Jill during the last few  minutes. He had heard Jill cry out and seen her disappear into the unknown. Like the  Prince and Puddleglum, he thought that some enemies had caught her. And from down  below he didn't see that the pale, blueish light was moonlight. He thought the hole would  lead only into some other cave, lit by some ghostly phosphorescence and filled with  goodness-knows-what evil creatures of the Underworld. So that when he had persuaded  Puddleglum to give him a back, and drawn his sword, and poked out his head, he had  really been doing a very brave thing. The others would have done it first if they could,  but the hole was too small for them to climb through. Eustace was a little bigger, and a lot  clumsier, than Jill, so that when he looked out he bumped his head against the top of the  hole and brought a small avalanche of snow down on his face. And so, when he could see  again, and saw dozens of figures coming at him as hard as they could run, it is not  surprising that he tried to ward them off.  
"Stop, Eustace, stop," cried Jill. "They're all friends. Can't you see? We've come up in  Narnia. Everything's all right."  
Then Eustace did see, and apologized to the Dwarfs (and the Dwarfs said not to mention  it), and dozens of thick, hairy, dwarfish hands helped him out just as they had helped Jill  out a few minutes before. Then Jill scrambled up the bank and put her head in at the dark  opening and shouted the good news in to the prisoners. As she turned away she heard  Puddleglum mutter. "Ah, poor Pole. It's been too much for her, this last bit. Turned her  head, I shouldn't wonder. She's beginning to see things."  
Jill rejoined Eustace and they shook one another by both hands and took in great deep  breaths of the free midnight air. And a warm cloak was brought for Eustace and hot  drinks, for both. While they were sipping it, the Dwarfs had already got all the snow and  all the sods off a large strip of the hillside round the original hole, and the pickaxes and  spades were now going as merrily as the feet of Fauns and Dryads had been going in the  
 
 dance ten minutes before. Only ten minutes! Yet already it felt to Jill and Eustace as if all  their dangers in the dark and heat and general smotheriness of the earth must have been  only a dream. Out here, in the cold, with the moon and the huge stars overhead (Narnian  stars are nearer than stars in our world) and with kind, merry faces all round them, one  couldn't quite believe in Underland.  
Before they had finished their hot drinks, a dozen or so Moles, newly waked and still  very sleepy, and not well pleased, had arrived. But as soon as they understood what it  was all about, they joined in with a will. Even the Fauns made themselves useful by  carting away the earth in little barrows, and the Squirrels danced and leaped to and fro in  great excitement, though Jill never found out exactly what they thought they were doing.  The Bears and Owls contented themselves with giving advice, and kept on asking the  children if they wouldn't like to come into the cave (that was where Jill had seen the  firelight) and get warm and have supper. But the children couldn't bear to go without  seeing their friends set free.  
No one in our world can work at a job of that sort as Dwarfs and Talking Moles work in  Narnia; but then, of course, Moles and Dwarfs don't look on it as work. They like  digging. It was therefore not really long before they had opened a great black chasm in  the hillside. And out from the blackness into the moonlight - this would have been rather  dreadful if one hadn't known who they were came, first, the long, leggy, steeple-hatted  figure of the Marsh-wiggle, and then, leading two great horses, Rilian the Prince himself.  
As Puddleglum appeared shouts broke out on every side: "Why, it's a Wiggle - why, it's  old Puddleglum - old Puddleglum from the Eastern Marshes - what ever have you been  doing, Puddleglum? - there've been search-parties out for you - the Lord Trumpkin has  been putting up notices there's a reward offered!" But all this died away, all in one  moment, into dead silence, as quickly as the noise dies away in a rowdy dormitory if the  Headmaster opens the door. For now they saw the Prince.  
No one doubted for a moment who he was. There were plenty of Beasts and Dryads and  Dwarfs and Fauns who remembered him from the days before his enchanting. There were  some old ones who could just remember how his father, King Caspian, had looked when  he was a young man, and saw the likeness. But I think they would have known him  anyway. Pale though he was from long imprisonment in the Deep Lands, dressed in  black, dusty, dishevelled, and weary, there was something in his face and air which no  one could mistake. That look is in the face of all true kings of Narnia, who rule by the  will of Aslan and sit at Cair Paravel on the throne of Peter the High King.  
Instantly every head was bared and every knee was bent; a moment later such cheering  and shouting, such jumps and reels of joy, such hand-shakings and kissings and  embracings of everybody by everybody else broke out that the tears came into Jill's eyes.  Their quest had been worth all the pains it cost.  
"Please it your Highness," said the oldest of the Dwarfs, "there is some attempt at a  supper in the cave yonder, prepared against the ending of the snow-dance -"  
 
   
"With a good will, Father," said the Prince. "For never had any Prince, Knight,  Gentleman, or Bear so good a stomach to his victuals as we four wanderers have tonight."  
The whole crowd began to move away through the trees towards the cave. Jill heard  Puddleglum saying to those who pressed round him. "No, no, my story can wait.  
Nothing worth talking about has happened to me. I want to hear the news. Don't try  breaking it to me gently, for I'd rather have it all at once. Has the King been  shipwrecked? Any forest fires? No wars on the Calormen border? Or a few dragons, I  shouldn't wonder?" And all the creatures laughed aloud and said, "Isn't that just like a  Marshwiggle?"  
The two children were nearly dropping with tiredness and hunger, but the warmth of the  cave, and the very sight of it, with the firelight dancing on the walls and dressers and  cups and saucers and plates and on the smooth stone floor, just as it does in a farmhouse  kitchen, revived them a little. All the same they went fast asleep while supper was being  got ready. And while they slept Prince Rilian was talking over the whole adventure with  the older and wiser Beasts and Dwarfs. And now they all saw what it meant; how a  wicked Witch (doubtless the same kind as that White Witch who had brought the Great  Winter on Narnia long ago) had contrived the whole thing, first killing Rilian's mother  and enchanting Rilian himself. And they saw how she had dug right under Narnia and  was going to break out and rule it through Rilian: and how he had never dreamed that the  country of which she would make him king (king in name, but really her slave) was his  own country. And from the children's part of the story they saw how she was in league  and friendship with the dangerous giants of Harfang. "And the lesson of it all is, your  Highness," said the oldest Dwarf, "that those Northern Witches always mean the same  thing, but in every age they have a different plan for getting it."  
  
  
CHAPTER SIXTEEN  
THE HEALING OF HARMS  
  
WHEN Jill woke next morning and found herself in a cave, she thought for one horrid  moment that she was back in the Underworld. But when she noticed that she was lying on  a bed of heather with a furry mantle over her, and saw a cheery fire crackling (as if newly  lit) on a stone hearth and, farther off, morning sunlight coming in through the cave's  mouth, she remembered all the happy truth. They had had a delightful supper, all  crowded into that cave, in spite of being so sleepy before it was properly over. She had a  vague impression of Dwarfs crowding round the fire with frying-pans rather bigger than  themselves, and the hissing, and delicious smell of sausages, and more, and more, and  more sausages. And not wretched sausages half full of bread and soya bean either, but  
 
 real meaty, spicy ones, fat and piping hot and burst and just the tiniest bit burnt. And  great mugs of frothy chocolate, and roast potatoes and roast chestnuts, and baked apples  with raisins stuck in where the cores had been, and then ices just to freshen you up after  all the hot things.  
Jill sat up and looked around. Puddleglum and Eustace were lying not far away, both fast  asleep.  
"Hi, you two!" shouted Jill in a loud voice. "Aren't you ever going to get up?"  
"Shoo, shoo!" said a sleepy voice somewhere above her. "Time to be settling down. Have  a good snooze, do, do. Don't make a to-do. Tu-whoo!"  
"Why, I do believe," said Jill, glancing up at a white bundle of fluffy feathers which was  perched on top of a grandfather clock in one corner of the cave, "I do believe it's  Glimfeather!"  
"True, true," whirred the Owl, lifting its head out from under its wing and opening one  eye. "I came up with a message for the Prince at about two. The squirrels brought us the  good news. Message for the Prince. He's gone. You're to follow too. Good-day -" and the  head disappeared again.  
As there seemed no further hope of getting any information from the Owl, Jill got up and  began looking round for any chance of a wash and some breakfast. But almost at once a  little Faun came trotting into the cave with a sharp click-clack of his goaty hoofs on the  stone floor.  
"Ah! You've woken up at last, Daughter of Eve," he said. "Perhaps you'd better wake the  Son of Adam. You've got to be off in a few minutes and two Centaurs have very kindly  offered to let you ride on their backs down to Cair Paravel." He added in a lower voice.  "Of course, you realize it is a most special and unheard-of honour to be allowed to ride a  Centaur. I don't know that I ever heard of anyone doing it before. It wouldn't do to keep  them waiting."  
"Where's the Prince?" was the first question of Eustace and Puddleglum as soon as they  had been wakened.  
"He's gone down to meet the King, his father, at Cair Paravel," answered the Faun, whose  name was Orruns. "His Majesty's ship is expected in harbour any moment. It seems that  the King met Aslan - I don't know whether it was in a vision or face to face - before he  had sailed far, and Aslan turned him back and told him he would find his long-lost son  awaiting him when he reached Narnia."  
Eustace was now up and he and Jill set about helping Orruns to get the breakfast.  Puddleglum was told to stay in bed. A Centaur called Cloudbirth, a famous healer, or (as  Orruns called it) a 'leech', was coming to see to his burnt foot.  
 
   
"Ah!" said Puddleglum in a tone almost of contentment, "he'll want to have the leg off at  the knee, I shouldn't wonder. You see if he doesn't." But he was quite glad to stay in bed.  
Breakfast was scrambled eggs and toast and Eustace tackled it just as if he had not had a  very large supper in the middle of the night.  
"I say, Son of Adam," said the Faun, looking with a certain awe at Eustace's mouthfuls.  "There's no need to hurry quite so dreadfully as that. I don't think the Centaurs have quite  finished their breakfasts yet."  
"Then they must have got up very late," said Eustace. "I bet it's after ten o'clock."  
"Oh no," said Orruns. "They got up before it was light."  
"Then they must have waited the dickens of a time for breakfast," said Eustace.  
"No, they didn't," said Orruns. "They began eating the minute they awoke."  
"Golly!" said Eustace. "Do they eat a very big breakfast?"  
"Why, Son of Adam, don't you understand? A Centaur has a man-stomach and a horse- stomach. And of course both want breakfast. So first of all he has porridge and pavenders  and kidneys and bacon and omelette and cold ham and toast and marmalade and coffee  and beer. And after that he attends to the horse part of himself by grazing for an hour or  so and finishing up with a hot mash, some oats, and a bag of sugar. That's why it's such a  serious thing to ask a Centaur to stay for the week-end. A very serious thing indeed."  
At that moment there was a sound of horse-hoofs tapping on rock from the mouth of the  cave, and the children looked up. The two Centaurs, one with a black and one with a  golden beard flowing over their magnificent bare chests, stood waiting for them, bending  their heads a little so as to look into the cave. Then the children became very polite and  finished their breakfast very quickly. No one thinks a Centaur funny when he sees it.  They are solemn, majestic people, full of ancient wisdom which they learn from the stars,  not easily made either merry or angry; but their anger is terrible as a tidal wave when it  comes.  
"Good-bye, dear Puddleglum," said Jill, going over to the Marsh-wiggle's bed. "I'm sorry  we called you a wet blanket."  
"So'm I," said Eustace. "You've been the best friend in the world."  
"And I do hope we'll meet again," added Jill.  
"Not much chance of that, I should say," replied Puddleglum. "1 don't reckon I'm very  likely to see my old wigwam again either. And that Prince - he's a nice chap - but do you  
 
 think he's very strong? Constitution ruined with living underground, I shouldn't wonder.  Looks the sort that might go off any day."  
"Puddleglum!" said Jill. "You're a regular old humbug. You sound as doleful as a funeral  and I believe you're perfectly happy. And you talk as if you were afraid of everything,  when you're really as brave as-as a lion."  
"Now, speaking of funerals," began Puddleglum, but Jill, who heard the Centaurs tapping  with their hoofs behind her, surprised him very much by flinging her arms round his thin  neck and kissing his muddy-looking face, while Eustace wrung his hand. Then they both  rushed away to the Centaurs, and the Marsh-wiggle, sinking back on his bed, remarked to  himself, "Well, I wouldn't have dreamt of her doing that. Even though I am a good- looking chap."  
To ride on a Centaur is, no doubt, a great honour (and except Jill and Eustace there is  probably no one alive in the world today who has had it) but it is very uncomfortable. For  no one who valued his life would suggest putting a saddle on a Centaur, and riding bare- back is no fun; especially if, like Eustace, you have never learned to ride at all. The  Centaurs were very polite in a grave, gracious, grown-up kind of way, and as they  cantered through the Narnian woods they spoke, without turning their heads, telling the  children about the properties of herbs and roots, the influences of the planets, the nine  names of Aslan with their meanings, and things of that sort. But however sore and jolted  the two humans were, they would now give anything to have that journey over again: to  see those glades and slopes sparkling with last night's snow, to be met by rabbits and  squirrels and birds that wished you good morning, to breathe again the air of Narnia and  hear the voices of the Narnian trees.  
They came down to the river, flowing bright and blue in winter sunshine, far below the  last bridge (which is at the snug, red-roofed little town of Beruna) and were ferried across  in a flat barge by the ferryman; or rather, by the ferry-wiggle, for it is Marsh-wiggles who  do most of the watery and fishy kinds of work in Narnia. And when they had crossed they  rode along the south bank of the river and presently came to Cair Paravel itself. And at  the very moment of their arrival they saw that same bright ship which they had seen when  they first set foot in Narnia, gliding up the river like a huge bird. All the court were once  more assembled on the green between the castle and the quay to welcome King Caspian  home again. Rilian, who had changed his black clothes and was now dressed in a scarlet  cloak over silver mail, stood close to the water's edge, bare-headed, to receive his father;  and the Dwarf Trumpkin sat beside him in his little donkey-chair. The children saw there  would be no chance of reaching the Prince through all that crowd, and, anyway, they now  felt rather shy. So they asked the Centaurs if they might go on sitting on their backs a  little longer and thus see everything over the heads of the courtiers. And the Centaurs said  they might.  
A flourish of silver trumpets came over the water from the ship's deck: the sailors threw a  rope; rats (Talking Rats, of course) and Marsh-wiggles made it fast ashore; and the ship  was warped in. Musicians, hidden somewhere in the crowd, began to play solemn,  
 
 triumphal music. And soon the King's galleon was alongside and the Rats ran the  gangway on board her.  
Jill expected to see the old King come down it. But there appeared to be some hitch. A  Lord with a pale face came ashore and knelt to the Prince and to Trumpkin. The three  were talking with their heads close together for a few minutes, but no one could hear  what they said. The music played on, but you could feel that everyone was becoming  uneasy. Then four Knights, carrying something and going very slowly, appeared on deck.  When they started to come down the gangway you could see what they were carrying: it  was the old King on a bed, very pale and still. They set him down. The Prince knelt  beside him and embraced him. They could see King Caspian raising his hand to bless his  son. And everyone cheered, but it was a half-hearted cheer, for they all felt that  something was going wrong. Then suddenly the King's head fell back upon his pillows,  the musicians stopped and there was a dead silence. The Prince, kneeling by the King's  bed, laid down his head upon it and wept.  
There were whisperings and goings to and fro. Then Jill noticed that all who wore hats,  bonnets, helmets, or hoods were taking them off - Eustace included. Then she heard a  rustling and flapping noise up above the castle; when she looked she saw that the great  banner with the golden Lion on it was being brought down to half-mast. And after that,  slowly, mercilessly, with wailing strings and disconsolate blowing of horns, the music  began again: this time, a tune to break your heart.  
They both slipped off their Centaurs (who took no notice of them).  
"I wish I was at home," said Jill.  
Eustace nodded, saying nothing, and bit his lip.  
"I have come," said a deep voice behind them. They turned and saw the Lion himself, so  bright and real and strong that everything else began at once to look pale and shadowy  compared with him. And in less time than it takes to breathe Jill forgot about the dead  King of Narnia and remembered only how she had made Eustace fall over the cliff, and  how she had helped to muff nearly all the signs, and about all the snappings and  quarrellings. And she wanted to say "I'm sorry" but she could not speak. Then the Lion  drew them towards him with his eyes, and bent down and touched their pale faces with  his tongue, and said:  
"Think of that no more. I will not always be scolding. You have done the work for which  I sent you into Narnia."  
"Please, Aslan," said Jill, "may we go home now?"  
"Yes. I have come to bring you Home," said Aslan. Then he opened his mouth wide and  blew. But this time they had no sense of flying through the air: instead, it seemed that  they remained still, and the wild breath of Aslan blew away the ship and the dead King  
 
 and the castle and the snow and the winter sky. For all these things floated off into the air  like wreaths of smoke, and suddenly they were standing in a great brightness of mid- summer sunshine, on smooth turf, among mighty trees, and beside a fair, fresh stream.  
Then they saw that they were once more on the Mountain of Aslan, high up above and  beyond the end of that world in which Narnia lies. But the strange thing was that the  funeral music for King Caspian still went on, though no one could tell where it came  from. They were walking beside the stream and the Lion went before them: and he  became so beautiful, and the music so despairing, that Jill did not know which of them it  was that filled her eyes with tears.  
Then Aslan stopped, and the children looked into the stream. And there, on the golden  gravel of the bed of the stream, lay King Caspian, dead, with the water flowing over him  like liquid glass. His long white beard swayed in it like water-weed. And all three stood  and wept. Even the Lion wept: great Lion-tears, each tear more precious than the Earth  would be if it was a single solid diamond. And Jill noticed that Eustace looked neither  like a child crying, nor like a boy crying and wanting to hide it, but like a grownup  crying. At least, that is the nearest she could get to it; but really, as she said, people don't  seem to have any particular ages on that mountain.  
"Son of Adam," said Aslan, "go into that thicket and pluck the thorn that you will find  there, and bring it to me."  
Eustace obeyed. The thorn was a foot long and sharp as a rapier.  
"Drive it into my paw, Son of Adam," said Aslan, holding up his right fore-paw and  spreading out the great pad towards Eustace.  
"Must I?" said Eustace.  
"Yes," said Aslan.  
Then Eustace set his teeth and drove the thorn into the Lion's pad. And there came out a  great drop of blood, redder than all redness that you have ever seen or imagined.  
And it splashed into the stream over the dead body of the King. At the same moment the  doleful music stopped. And the dead King began to be changed. His white beard turned  to grey, and from grey to yellow, and got shorter and vanished altogether; and his sunken  cheeks grew round and fresh, and the wrinkles were smoothed, and his eyes opened, and  his eyes and lips both laughed, and suddenly he leaped up and stood before them - a very  young man, or a boy. (But Jill couldn't say which, because of people having no particular  ages in Aslan's country. Even in this world, of course, it is the stupidest children who are  most childish and the stupidest grown-ups who are most grownup.) And he rushed to  Aslan and flung his arms as far as they would go round the huge neck; and he gave Aslan  the strong kisses of a King, and Aslan gave him the wild kisses of a Lion.  
 
 At last Caspian turned to the others. He gave a great laugh of astonished joy.  
"Why! Eustace!" he said. "Eustace! So you did reach the end of the world after all. What  about my second-best sword that you broke on the sea-serpent?"  
Eustace made a step towards him with both hands held out, but then drew back with a  somewhat startled expression.  
"Look here! I say," he stammered. "It's all very well. But aren't you? - I mean didn't you - ?"  
"Oh, don't be such an ass," said Caspian.  
"But," said Eustace, looking at Aslan. "Hasn't he - er died?"  
"Yes," said the Lion in a very quiet voice, almost (Jill thought) as if he were laughing.  "He has died. Most people have, you know. Even I have. There are very few who  haven't."  
"Oh," said Caspian. "I see what's bothering you. You think I'm a ghost, or some  nonsense. But don't you see? I would be that if I appeared in Narnia now: because I don't  belong there any more. But one can't be a ghost in one's own country. I might be a ghost  if I got into your world. I don't know. But I suppose it isn't yours either, now you're here."  
A great hope rose in the children's hearts. But Aslan shook his shaggy head. "No, my  dears," he said. "When you meet me here again, you will have come to stay. But not now.  You must go back to your own world for a while."  
"Sir," said Caspian, "I've always wanted to have just one glimpse of their world. Is that  wrong?"  
"You cannot want wrong things any more, now that you have died, my son," said Aslan.  "And you shall see their world - for five minutes of their time. It will take no longer for  you to set things right there." Then Aslan explained to Caspian what Jill and Eustace  were going back to and all about Experiment House: he seemed to know it quite as well  as they did.  
"Daughter," said Aslan to Jill, "pluck a switch off that bush." She did; and as soon as it  was in her hand it turned into a fine new riding crop.  
"Now, Sons of Adam, draw your swords," said Aslan. "But use only the flat, for it is  cowards and children, not warriors, against whom 1 send you."  
"Are you coming with us, Aslan?" said Jill.  
"They shall see only my back," said Aslan.  
 
   
He led them rapidly through the wood, and before they had gone many paces, the wall of  Experiment House appcared before them. Then Aslan roared so that the sun shook in the  sky and thirty feet of the wall fell down before them. They looked through the gap, down  into the school shrubbery and on to the roof of the gym, all under the same dull autumn  sky which they had seen before their adventures began. Aslan turned to Jill and Eustace  and breathed upon them and touched their foreheads with his tongue. Then he lay down  amid the gap he had made in the wall and turned his golden back to England, and his  lordly face towards his own lands. At the same moment Jill saw figures whom she knew  only too well running up through the laurels towards them. Most of the gang were there  Adela Pennyfather and Cholmondely Major, Edith Winterblott, `Spotty' Sorrier, big  Bannister, and the two loathsome Garrett twins. But suddenly they stopped. Their faces  changed, and all the meanness, conceit, cruelty, and sneakishness almost disappeared in  one single expression of terror. For they saw the wall fallen down, and a lion as large as a  young elephant lying in the gap, and three figures in glittering clothes with weapons in  their hands rushing down upon them. For, with the strength of Aslan in them, Jill plied  her crop on the girls and Caspian and Eustace plied the flats of their swords on the boys  so well that in two minutes all the bullies were running like mad, crying out, `Murder!  Fascists! Lions! It isn't fair.' And then the Head (who was, by the way, a woman) came  running out to see what was happening. And when she saw the lion and the broken wall  and Caspian and Jill and Eustace (whom she quite failed to recognize) she had hysterics  and went back to the house and began ringing up the police with stories about a lion  escaped from a circus, and escaped convicts who broke down walls and carried drawn  swords. In the midst of all this fuss Jill and Eustace slipped quietly indoors and changed  out of their bright clothes into ordinary things, and Caspian went back into his own  world. And the wall, at Aslan's word, was made whole again. When the police arrived  and found no lion, no broken wall, and no convicts, and the Head behaving like a lunatic,  there was an inquiry into the whole thing. And in the inquiry all sorts of things about  Experiment House came out, and about ten people got expelled. After that, the Head's  friends saw that the Head was no use as a Head, so they got her made an Inspector to  interfere with other Heads. And when they found she wasn't much good even at that, they  got her into Parliament where she lived happily ever after.  
Eustace buried his fine clothes secretly one night in the school grounds, but Jill smuggled  hers home and wore them at a fancy-dress ball next holidays. And from that day forth  things changed for the better at Experiment House, and it became quite a good school.  And Jill and Eustace were always friends.  
But far off in Narnia, King Rilian buried his father, Caspian the Navigator, Tenth of that  name, and mourned for him. He himself ruled Narnia well and the land was happy in his  days, though Puddleglum (whose foot was as good as new in three weeks) often pointed  out that bright mornings brought on wet afternoons, and that you couldn't expect good  times to last. The opening into the hillside was left open, and often in hot summer days  the Narnians go in there with ships and lanterns and down to the water and sail to and fro,  singing, on the cool, dark underground sea, telling each other stories of the cities that lie  
 
 fathoms deep below. If ever you have the luck to go to Narnia yourself, do not forget to  have a look at those caves.    
