 THE VOYAGE OF THE DAWN TREADER 
BY 
C.S. LEWIS 
 CHAPTER ONE 
THE PICTURE IN THE BEDROOM 
THERE was a boy called Eustace Clarence Scrubb, and he almost deserved it. His  parents called him Eustace Clarence and masters called him Scrubb. I can't tell you how  his friends spoke to him, for he had none. He didn't call his Father and Mother "Father"  and "Mother", but Harold and Alberta. They were very up-to-date and advanced people.  They were vegetarians, non-smokers and teetotallers and wore a special kind of  underclothes. In their house there was very little furniture and very few clothes on beds  and the windows were always open. 
Eustace Clarence liked animals, especially beetles, if they were dead and pinned on a  card. He liked books if they were books of information and had pictures of grain  elevators or of fat foreign children doing exercises in model schools. 
Eustace Clarence disliked his cousins the four Pevensies, Peter, Susan, Edmund and  Lucy. But he was quite glad when he heard that Edmund and Lucy were coming to stay.  For deep down inside him he liked bossing and bullying; and, though he was a puny little  person who couldn't have stood up even to Lucy, let alone Edmund, in a fight, he knew  that there are dozens of ways to give people a bad time if you are in your own home and  they are only visitors. 
Edmund and Lucy did not at all want to come and stay with Uncle Harold and Aunt  Alberta. But it really couldn't be helped. Father had got a job lecturing in America for  sixteen weeks that summer, and Mother was to go with him because she hadn't had a real  holiday for ten years. Peter was working very hard for an exam and he was to spend the  holidays being coached by old Professor Kirke in whose house these four children had  had wonderful adventures long ago in the war years. If he had still been in that house he  would have had them all to stay. But he had somehow become poor since the old days  and was living in a small cottage with only one bedroom to spare. It would have cost too  much money to take the other three all to America, and Susan had gone. 
Grown-ups thought her the pretty one of the family and she was no good at school work  (though otherwise very old for her age) and Mother said she "would get far more out of a  trip to America than the youngsters". Edmund and Lucy tried not to grudge Susan her  luck, but it was dreadful having to spend the summer holidays at their Aunt's. "But it's far  worse for me," said Edmund, "because you'll at least have a room of your own and I shall  have to share a bedroom with that record stinker, Eustace." 
 
  
The story begins on an afternoon when Edmund and Lucy were stealing a few precious  minutes alone together. And of course they were talking about Narnia, which was the  name of their own private and secret country. Most of us, I suppose, have a secret country  but for most of us it is only an imaginary country. Edmund and Lucy were luckier than  other people in that respect. Their secret country was real. They had already visited it  twice; not in a game or a dream but in reality. They had got there of course by Magic,  which is the only way of getting to Narnia. And a promise, or very nearly a promise, had  been made them in Narnia itself that they would some day get back. You may imagine  that they talked about it a good deal, when they got the chance. 
They were in Lucy's room, sitting on the edge of her bed and looking at a picture on the  opposite wall. It was the only picture in the house that they liked. Aunt Alberta didn't like  it at all (that was why it was put away in a little back room upstairs), but she couldn't get  rid of it because it had been a wedding present from someone she did not want to offend. 
It was a picture of a ship - a ship sailing straight towards you. Her prow was gilded and  shaped like the head of a dragon with wide-open mouth. She had only one mast and one  large, square sail which was a rich purple. The sides of the ship - what you could see of  them where the gilded wings of the dragon ended-were green. She had just run up to the  top of one glorious blue wave, and the nearer slope of that wave came down towards you,  with streaks and bubbles on it. She was obviously running fast before a gay wind, listing  over a little on her port side. (By the way, if you are going to read this story at all, and if  you don't know already, you had better get it into your head that the left of a ship when  you are looking ahead, is port, and the right is starboard.) All the sunlight fell on her from  that side, and the water on that side was full of greens and purples. On the other, it was  darker blue from the shadow of the ship. 
"The question is," said Edmund, "whether it doesn't make things worse, looking at a  Narnian ship when you can't get there." 
"Even looking is better than nothing," said Lucy. "And she is such a very Narnian ship." 
"Still playing your old game?" said Eustace Clarence, who had been listening outside the  door and now came grinning into the room. Last year, when he had been staying with the  Pevensies, he had managed to hear them all talking of Narnia and he loved teasing them  about it. He thought of course that they were making it all up; and as he was far too  stupid to make anything up himself, he did not approve of that. 
"You're not wanted here," said Edmund curtly. 
"I'm trying to think of a limerick," said Eustace. "Something like this: 
"Some kids who played games about Narnia Got gradually balmier and balmier-" 
"Well Narnia and balmier don't rhyme, to begin with," said Lucy. 
 
  
"It's an assonance," said Eustace. 
"Don't ask him what an assy-thingummy is," said Edmund. "He's only longing to be  asked. Say nothing and perhaps he'll go away." 
Most boys, on meeting a reception like this, would either have cleared out or flared up.  Eustace did neither. He just hung about grinning, and presently began talking again. 
"Do you like that picture?" he asked. 
"For heaven's sake don't let him get started about Art and all that," said Edmund  hurriedly, but Lucy, who was very truthful, had already said, "Yes, I do. I like it very  much." 
"It's a rotten picture," said Eustace. 
"You won't see it if you step outside," said Edmund. 
"Why do you like it?" said Eustace to Lucy. 
"Well, for one thing," said Lucy, "I like it because the ship looks as if it was really  moving. And the water looks as if it was really wet. And the waves look as if they were  really going up and down." 
Of course Eustace knew lots of answers to this, but he didn't say anything. The reason  was that at that very moment he looked at the waves and saw that they did look very  much indeed as if they were going up and down. He had only once been in a ship (and  then only as far as the Isle of Wight) and had been horribly seasick. The look of the  waves in the picture made him feel sick again. He turned rather green and tried another  look. And then all three children were staring with open mouths. 
What they were seeing may be hard to believe when you read it in print, but it was almost  as hard to believe when you saw it happening. The things in the picture were moving. It  didn't look at all like a cinema either; the colours were too real and clean and out-of- doors for that. Down went the prow of the ship into the wave and up went a great shock  of spray. And then up went the wave behind her, and her stern and her deck became  visible for the first time, and then disappeared as the next wave came to meet her and her  bows went up again. At the same moment an exercise book which had been lying beside  Edmund on the bed flapped, rose and sailed through the air to the wall behind him, and  Lucy felt all her hair whipping round her face as it does on a windy day. And this was a  windy day; but the wind was blowing out of the picture towards them. And suddenly with  the wind came the noises-the swishing of waves and the slap of water against the ship's  sides and the creaking and the overall high steady roar of air and water. But it was the  smell, the wild, briny smell, which really convinced Lucy that she was not dreaming. 
 
 "Stop it," came Eustace's voice, squeaky with fright and bad temper. "It's some silly trick  you two are playing. Stop it. I'll tell Alberta - Ow!" 
The other two were much more accustomed to adventures, but, just exactly as Eustace  Clarence said "Ow," they both said "Ow" too. The reason was that a great cold, salt  splash had broken right out of the frame and they were breathless from the smack of it,  besides being wet through. 
"I'll smash the rotten thing," cried Eustace; and then several things happened at the same  time. Eustace rushed towards the picture. Edmund, who knew something about magic,  sprang after him, warning him to look out and not to be a fool. Lucy grabbed at him from  the other side and was dragged forward. And by this time either they had grown much  smaller or the picture had grown bigger. Eustace jumped to try to pull it off the wall and  found himself standing on the frame; in front of him was not glass but real sea, and wind  and waves rushing up to the frame as they might to a rock. He lost his head and clutched  at the other two who had jumped up beside him. There was a second of struggling and  shouting, and just as they thought they had got their balance a great blue roller surged up  round them, swept them off their feet, and drew them down into the sea. Eustace's  despairing cry suddenly ended as the water got into his mouth. 
Lucy thanked her stars that she had worked hard at her swimming last summer term. It is  true that she would have got on much better if she had used a slower stroke, and also that  the water felt a great deal colder than it had looked while it was only a picture. Still, she  kept her head and kicked her shoes off, as everyone ought to do who falls into deep water  in their clothes. She even kept her mouth shut and her eyes open. They were still quite  near the ship; she saw its green side towering high above them, and people looking at her  from the deck. Then, as one might have expected, Eustace clutched at her in a panic and  down they both went. 
When they came up again she saw a white figure diving off the ship's side. Edmund was  close beside her now, treading water, and had caught the arms of the howling Eustace.  Then someone else, whose face was vaguely familiar, slipped an arm under her from the  other side. There was a lot of shouting going on from the ship, heads crowding together  above the bulwarks, ropes being thrown. Edmund and the stranger were fastening ropes  round her. After that followed what seemed a very long delay during which her face got  blue and her teeth began chattering. In reality the delay was not very long; they were  waiting till the moment when she could be got on board the ship without being dashed  against its side. Even with all their best endeavours she had a bruised knee when she  finally stood, dripping and shivering, on the deck. After her Edmund was heaved up, and  then the miserable Eustace. Last of all came the stranger - a golden-headed boy some  years older than herself. 
"Ca - Ca - Caspian!" gasped Lucy as soon as she had breath enough. For Caspian it was;  Caspian, the boy king of Narnia whom they had helped to set on the throne during their  last visit. Immediately Edmund recognized him too. All three shook hands and clapped  one another on the back with great delight. 
 
  
"But who is your friend?" said Caspian almost at once, turning to Eustace with his  cheerful smile. But Eustace was crying much harder than any boy of his age has a right to  cry when nothing worse than a wetting has happened to him, and would only yell out,  "Let me go. Let me go back. I don't like it." 
"Let you go?" said Caspian. "But where?" 
Eustace rushed to the ship's side, as if he expected to see the picture frame hanging above  the sea, and perhaps a glimpse of Lucy's bedroom. What he saw was blue waves flecked  with foam, and paler blue sky, both spreading without a break to the horizon. Perhaps we  can hardly blame him if his heart sank. He was promptly sick. 
"Hey! Rynelf," said Caspian to one of the sailors. "Bring spiced wine for their Majesties.  You'll need something to warm you after that dip." He called Edmund and Lucy their  Majesties because they and Peter and Susan had all been Kings and Queens of Narnia  long before his time. Narnian time flows differently from ours. If you spent a hundred  years in Narnia, you would still come back to our world at the very same hour of the very  same day on which you left. And then, if you went back to Narnia after spending a week  here, you might find that a thousand Narnian years had passed, or only a day, or no time  at all. You never know till you get there. Consequently, when the Pevensie children had  returned to Narnia last time for their second visit, it was (for the Narnians) as if King  Arthur came back to Britain, as some people say he will. And I say the sooner the better. 
Rynelf returned with the spiced wine steaming in a flagon and four silver cups. It was just  what one wanted, and as Lucy and Edmund sipped it they could feel the warmth going  right down to their toes. But Eustace made faces and spluttered and spat it out and was  sick again and began to cry again and asked if they hadn't any Plumptree's Vitaminized  Nerve Food and could it be made with distilled water and anyway he insisted on being  put ashore at the next station. 
"This is a merry shipmate you've brought us, Brother," whispered Caspian to Edmund  with a chuckle; but before he could say anything more Eustace burst out again. 
"Oh! Ugh! What on earth's that! Take it away, the horrid thing." . 
He really had some excuse this time for feeling a little surprised. Something very curious  indeed had come out of the cabin in the poop and was slowly approaching them. You  might call it - and indeed it was - a Mouse. But then it was a Mouse on its hind legs and  stood about two feet high. A thin band of gold passed round its head under one ear and  over the other and in this was stuck a long crimson feather. (As the Mouse's fur was very  dark, almost black, the effect was bold and striking.) Its left paw rested on the hilt of a  sword very nearly as long as its tail. Its balance, as it paced gravely along the swaying  deck, was perfect, and its manners courtly. Lucy and Edmund recognized it at once  Reepicheep, the most valiant of all the Talking Beasts of Narnia, and the Chief Mouse. It  had won undying glory in the second Battle of Beruna. Lucy longed, as she had always 
 
 done, to take Reepicheep up in her arms and cuddle him. But this, as she well knew, was  a pleasure she could never have: it would have offended him deeply. Instead, she went  down on one knee to talk to him. 
Reepicheep put forward his left leg, drew back his right, bowed, kissed her hand,  straightened himself, twirled his whiskers, and said in his shrill, piping voice: 
"My humble duty to your Majesty. And to King Edmund, too." (Here he bowed again.)  "Nothing except your Majesties' presence was lacking to this glorious venture." 
"Ugh, take it away," wailed Eustace. "I hate mice. And I never could bear performing  animals. They're silly and vulgar and-and sentimental." 
"Am I to understand," said Reepicheep to Lucy after a long stare at Eustace, "that this  singularly discourteous person is under your Majesty's protection? Because, if not-" 
At this moment Lucy and Edmund both sneezed. 
"What a fool I am to keep you all standing here in your wet things," said Caspian. "Come  on below and get changed. I'll give you my cabin of course, Lucy, but I'm afraid we have  no women's clothes on board. You'll have to make do with some of mine. Lead the way,  Reepicheep, like a good fellow." 
"To the convenience of a lady," said Reepicheep, "even a question of honour must give  way - at least for the moment -" and here he looked very hard at Eustace. But Caspian  hustled them on and in a few minutes Lucy found herself passing through the door into  the stern cabin. She fell in love with it at once - the three square windows that looked out  on the blue, swirling water astern, the low cushioned benches round three sides of the  table, the swinging silver lamp overhead (Dwarfs' work, she knew at once by its exquisite  delicacy) and the flat gold image of Aslan the Lion on the forward wall above the door.  All this she took in in a flash, for Caspian immediately opened a door on the starboard  side, and said, "This'll be your room, Lucy. I'll just get some dry things for myself-" he  was rummaging in one of the lockers while he spoke - "and then leave you to change. If  you'll fling your wet things outside the door I'll get them taken to the galley to be dried." 
Lucy found herself as much at home as if she had been in Caspian's cabin for weeks, and  the motion of the ship did not worry her, for in the old days when she had been a queen in  Narnia she had done a good deal of voyaging. The cabin was very tiny but bright with  painted panels (all birds and beasts and crimson dragons and vines) and spotlessly clean.  Caspian's clothes were too big for her, but she could manage. His shoes, sandals and sea- boots were hopelessly big but she did not mind going barefoot on board ship. When she  had finished dressing she looked out of her window at the water rushing past and took a  long deep breath. She felt quite sure they were in for a lovely time. 
 
 
  
CHAPTER TWO 
ON BOARD THE DAWN TREADER 
"AH, there you are, Lucy," said Caspian. "We were just waiting for you. This is my  captain, the Lord Drinian." 
A dark-haired man went down on one knee and kissed her hand. The only others present  were Reepicheep and Edmund. 
"Where is Eustace?" asked Lucy. 
"In bed," said Edmund, "and I don't think we can do anything for him. It only makes him  worse if you try to be nice to him." 
"Meanwhile," said Caspian, "we want to talk." 
"By Jove, we do," said Edmund. "And first, about time. It's a year ago by our time since  we left you just before your coronation. How long has it been in Narnia?" 
"Exactly three years," said Caspian. 
"All going well?" asked Edmund. 
"You don't suppose I'd have left my kingdom and put to sea unless all was well,"  answered the King. "It couldn't be better. There's no trouble at all now between  Telmarines, Dwarfs, Talking Beasts, Fauns and the rest. And we gave those troublesome  giants on the frontier such a good beating last summer that they pay us tribute now. And I  had an excellent person to leave as Regent while I'm away Trumpkin, the Dwarf. You  remember him?" 
"Dear Trumpkin," said Lucy, "of course I do. You couldn't have made a better choice." 
"Loyal as a badger, Ma'am, and valiant as - as a Mouse," said Drinian. He had been going  to say "as a lion" but had noticed Reepicheep's eyes fixed on him. 
"And where are we heading for?" asked Edmund. 
"Well," said Caspian, "that's rather a long story. Perhaps you remember that when I was a  child my usurping uncle Miraz got rid of seven friends of my father's (who might have  taken my part) by sending them off to explore the unknown , Eastern Seas beyond the  Lone Islands." 
"Yes," said Lucy, "and none of them ever came back." 
 
 "Right. Well, on, my coronation day, with Aslan's approval, I swore an oath that, if once I  established peace in Narnia, I would sail east myself for a year and a day to find my  father's friends or to learn of their deaths and avenge them if I could. These were their  names - the Lord Revilian, the Lord Bern, the Lord Argoz, the Lord Mavramorn, the  Lord Octesian, the Lord Restimar, and - oh, that other one who's so hard to remember." 
"The Lord Rhoop, Sire," said Drinian. 
"Rhoop, Rhoop, of course," said Caspian. "That is my main intention. But Reepicheep  here has an even higher hope." Everyone's eyes turned to the Mouse. 
"As high as my spirit," it said. "Though perhaps as small as my stature. Why should we  not come to the very eastern end of the world? And what might we find there? I expect to  find Aslan's own country. It is always from the east, across the sea, that the great Lion  comes to us." 
"I say, that is an idea," said Edmund in an awed voice. 
"But do you think," said Lucy, "Aslan's country would be that sort of country - I mean,  the sort you could ever sail to?" 
"I do not know, Madam," said Reepicheep. "But there is this. When I was in my cradle, a  wood woman, a Dryad, spoke this verse over me: 
"Where sky and water meet, Where the waves grow sweet, Doubt not, Reepicheep, To  find all you seek, There is the utter East. 
"I do not know what it means. But the spell of it has been on me all my life." 
After a short silence Lucy asked, "And where are we now, Caspian?" 
"The Captain can tell you better than I," said Caspian, so Drinian got out his chart and  spread it on the table. 
"That's our position," he said, laying his finger on it. "Or was at noon today. We had a  fair wind from Cair Paravel and stood a little north for Galma, which we made on the  next day. We were in port for a week, for the Duke of Galma made a great tournament for  His Majesty and there he unhorsed many knights-" 
"And got a few nasty falls myself, Drinian. Some of the bruises are there still," put in  Caspian. 
"- And unhorsed many knights," repeated Drinian with a grin. "We thought the Duke  would have been pleased if the King's Majesty would have married his daughter, but  nothing came of that-" 
 
 "Squints, and has freckles," said Caspian. 
"Oh, poor girl," said Lucy. 
"And we sailed from Galma," continued Drinian, "and ran into a calm for the best part of  two days and had to row, and then had wind again and did not make Terebinthia till the  fourth day from Galma. And there their King sent out a warning not to land for there was  sickness in Terebinthia, but we doubled the cape and put in at a little creek far from the  city and watered. Then we had to lie off for three days before we got a south-east wind  and stood out for Seven Isles. The third day out a pirate (Terebinthian by her rig)  overhauled us, but when she saw us well armed she stood off after some shooting of  arrows on either part -" 
"And we ought to have given her chase and boarded her and hanged every mother's son  of them," said Reepicheep. 
"- And in five days more we were insight of Muil, which, as you know, is the  westernmost of the Seven Isles. Then we rowed through the straits and came about  sundown into Redhaven on the isle of Brenn, where we were very lovingly feasted and  had victuals and water at will. We left Redhaven six days ago and have made  marvellously good speed, so that I hope to see the Lone Islands the day after tomorrow.  The sum is, we are now nearly thirty days at sea and have sailed more than four hundred  leagues from Narnia." 
"And after the Lone Islands?" said Lucy. 
"No one knows, your Majesty," answered Drinian. "Unless the Lone Islanders themselves  can tell us." 
"They couldn't in our days," said Edmund. 
"Then," said Reepicheep, "it is after the Lone Islands that the adventure really begins." 
Caspian now suggested that they might like to be shown over the ship before supper, but  Lucy's conscience smote her and she said, "I think I really must go and see Eustace.  Seasickness is horrid, you know. If I had my old cordial with me I could cure him." 
"But you have," said Caspian. "I'd quite forgotten about it. As you left it behind I thought  it might be regarded as one of the royal treasures and so I brought it - if you think it ought  to be wasted on a thing like seasickness." 
"It'll only take a drop," said Lucy. 
Caspian opened one of the lockers beneath the bench and brought out the beautiful little  diamond flask which Lucy remembered so well. "Take back your own, Queen," he said.  They then left the cabin and went out into the sunshine. 
 
  
In the deck there were two large, long hatches, fore and aft of the mast, and both open, as  they always were in fair weather, to let light and air into the belly of the ship. Caspian led  them down a ladder into the after hatch. Here they found themselves in a place where  benches for rowing ran from side to side and the light came in through the oarholes and  danced on the roof. Of course Caspian's ship was not that horrible thing, a galley rowed  by slaves. Oars were used only when wind failed or for getting in and out of harbour and  everyone (except Reepicheep whose legs were too short) had often taken a turn. At each  side of the ship the space under the benches was left clear for the rowers' feet, but all  down the centre there was a kind of pit which went down to the very keel and this was  filled with all kinds of things - sacks of flour, casks of water and beer, barrels of pork,  jars of honey, skin bottles of wine, apples, nuts, cheeses, biscuits, turnips, sides of bacon.  From the roof - that is, from the under side of the deck - hung hams and strings of onions,  and also the men of the watch offduty in their hammocks. Caspian led them aft, stepping  from bench to bench; at least, it was stepping for him, and something between a step and  a jump for Lucy, and a real long jump for Reepicheep. In this way they came to a  partition with a door in it. Caspian opened the door and led them into a cabin which filled  the stern underneath the deck cabins in the poop. It was of course not so nice. It was very  low and the sides sloped together as they went down so that there was hardly any floor;  and though it had windows of thick glass, they were not made to open because they were  under water. In fact at this very moment, as the ship pitched they were alternately golden  with sunlight and dim green with the sea. 
"You and I must lodge here, Edmund," said Caspian. "We'll leave your kinsman the bunk  and sling hammocks for ourselves." 
"I beseech your Majesty-" said Drinian. 
"No, no shipmate," said Caspian, "we have argued all that out already. You and Rhince"  (Rhince was the mate) "are sailing the ship and will have cares and labours many a night  when we are singing catches or telling stories, so you and he must have the port cabin  above. King Edmund and I can lie very snug here below. But how is the stranger?" 
Eustace, very green in the face, scowled and asked whether there was any sign of the  storm getting less. But Caspian said, "What storm?" and Drinian burst out laughing. 
"Storm, young master!" he roared. "This is as fair weather as a man could ask for." 
"Who's that?" said Eustace irritably. "Send him away. His voice goes through my head." 
"I've brought you something that will make you feel better, Eustace," said Lucy. 
"Oh, go away and leave me alone," growled Eustace. But he took a drop from her flask,  and though he said it was beastly stuff (the smell in the cabin when she opened it was  delicious) it is certain that his face came the right colour a few moments after he had  swallowed it, and he must have felt better because, instead of wailing about the storm and 
 
 his head, he began demanding to be put ashore and said that at the first port he would  "lodge a disposition" against them all with the British Consul. But when Reepicheep  asked what a disposition was and how you lodged it (Reepicheep thought it was some  new way of arranging a single combat) Eustace could only reply, "Fancy not knowing  that." In the end they succeeded in convincing Eustace that they were already sailing as  fast as they could towards the nearest land they knew, and that they had no more power  of sending him back to Cambridge - which was where Uncle Harold lived - than of  sending him to the moon. After that he sulkily agreed to put on the fresh clothes which  had been put out for him and come on deck. 
Caspian now showed them over the ship, though indeed they had seen most it already.  They went up on the forecastle and saw the look-out man standing on a little shelf inside  the gilded dragon's neck and peering through its open mouth. Inside the forecastle was  the galley (or ship's kitchen) and quarters for such people as the boatswain, the carpenter,  the cook and the master-archer. If you think it odd to have the galley in the bows and  imagine the smoke from its chimney streaming back over the ship, that is because you are  thinking of steamships where there is always a headwind. On a sailing ship the wind is  coming from behind, and anything smelly is put as far forward as possible. They were  taken up to the fighting top, and at first it was rather alarming to rock to and fro there and  see the deck looking small and far away beneath. You realized that if you fell there was  no particular reason why you should fall on board rather than in the sea. Then they were  taken to the poop, where Rhince was on duty with another man at the great tiller, and  behind that the dragon's tail rose up, covered with gilding, and round inside it ran a little  bench. The name of the ship was Dawn Treader. She was only a little bit of a thing  compared with one of our I ships, or even with the cogs, dromonds, carracks and galleons  which Narnia had owned when Lucy and Edmund had reigned there under Peter as the  High King, for nearly all navigation had died out in the reigns of Caspian's ancestors.  When his uncle, Miraz the usurper, had sent the seven lords to sea, they had had to buy a  Galmian ship and man it with hired Galmian sailors. But now Caspian had begun to teach  the Narnians to be sea-faring folk once more, and the Dawn Treader was the finest ship  he had built yet. She was so small that, forward of the mast, there was hardly any deck  room between the central hatch and the ship's boat on one side and the hen-coop (Lucy  fed the hens) on the other. But she was a beauty of her kind, a "lady" as sailors say, her  lines perfect, her colours pure, and every spar and rope and pin lovingly made. Eustace of  course would be pleased with nothing, and kept on boasting about liners and motor-boats  and aeroplanes and submarines ("As if he knew anything about them," muttered  Edmund), but the other two were delighted with the Dawn Treader, and when they  returned aft to the cabin and supper, and saw the whole western sky lit up with an  immense crimson sunset, and felt the quiver of the ship, and tasted the salt on their lips,  and thought of unknown lands on the Eastern rim of the world, Lucy felt that she was  almost too happy to speak. 
What Eustace thought had best be told in his own words, for when they all got their  clothes back, dried, next morning, he at once got out a little black notebook and a pencil  and started to keep a diary. He always had this notebook with him and kept a record of  his marks in it, for though he didn't care much about any subject for its own sake, he 
 
 cared a great deal about marks and would even go to people and say, "I got so much.  What did you get?" But as he didn't seem likely to get many marks on the Dawn Treader  he now started a diary. This was the first entry. 
"7 August. Have now been twenty-four hours on this ghastly boat if it isn't a dream. All  the time a frightful storm has been raging (it's a good thing I'm not seasick). Huge waves  keep coming in over the front and I have seen the boat nearly go under any number of  times. All the others pretend to take no notice of this, either from swank or because  Harold says one of the most cowardly things ordinary people do is to shut their eyes to  Facts. It's madness to come out into the sea in a rotten little thing like this. Not much  bigger than a lifeboat. And, of course, absolutely primitive indoors. No proper saloon, no  radio, no bathrooms, no deck-chairs. I was dragged all over it yesterday evening and it  would make anyone sick to hear Caspian showing off his funny little toy boat as if it was  the Queen Mary. I tried to tell him what real ships are like, but he's too dense. E. and L.,  o f course, didn't back me up. I suppose a kid like L. doesn't realize the danger and E. is  buttering up C. as everyone does here. They call him a King. I said I was a Republican  but he had to ask me what that meant! He doesn't seem to know anything at all. Needless  to say I've been put in the worst cabin of the boat, a perfect dungeon, and Lucy has been  given a whole room on deck to herself, almost a nice room compared with the rest of this  place. C. says that's because she's a girl. I tried to make him see what Alberta says, that  all that sort of thing is really lowering girls but he was too dense. Still, he might see that I  shall be ill if I'm kept in that hole any longer. E. says we mustn't grumble because C. is  sharing it with us himself to make room for L. As if that didn't make it more crowded and  far worse. Nearly forgot to say that there is also a kind of Mouse thing that gives  everyone the most frightful cheek. The others can put up with it if they like but I shall  twist his tail pretty soon if he tries it on me. The food is frightful too." 
The trouble between Eustace and Reepicheep arrived even sooner than might have been  expected. Before dinner next day, when the others were sitting round the table , waiting  (being at sea gives one a magnificent appetite), Eustace came rushing in, wringing his  hand and shouting out: 
"That little brute has half killed me. I insist on it being kept under control. I could bring  an action against you, Caspian. i could order you to have it destroyed." 
At the same moment Reepicheep appeared. His sword was drawn and his whiskers  looked very fierce but he was as polite as ever. 
"I ask your pardons all," he said, "and especially her Majesty's. If I had known that he  would take refuge here I would have awaited a more reasonable time for his correction." 
"What on earth's up?" asked Edmund. 
What had really happened was this. Reepicheep, who never felt that the ship was getting  on fast enough, loved to sit on the bulwarks far forward just beside the dragon's head,  gazing out at the eastern horizon and singing softly in his little chirruping voice the song 
 
 the Dryad had made for him. He never held on to anything, however the ship pitched, and  kept his balance with perfect ease; perhaps his long tail, hanging down to the deck inside  the bulwarks, made this easier. Everyone on board was familiar with this habit, and the  sailors liked it because when one was on look-out duty it gave one somebody to talk to.  Why exactly Eustace had slipped and reeled and stumbled all the way forward to the  forecastle (he had not yet got his sea-legs) I never heard. Perhaps he hoped he would see  land, or perhaps he wanted to hang about the galley and scrounge something. Anyway, as  soon as he saw that long tail hanging down - and perhaps it was rather tempting - he  thought it would be delightful to catch hold of it, swing Reepicheep round by it once or  twice upside-down, then run away and laugh, At first the plan seemed to work  beautifully. The Mouse was not much heavier than a very large cat. Eustace had him off  the rail in a trice and very silly he looked (thought Eustace) with his little limbs all  splayed out and his mouth open. But unfortunately Reepicheep, who had fought for his  life many a time, never lost his head even for a moment. Nor his skill. It is not very easy  to draw one's sword when one is swinging round in the air by one's tail, but he did. And  the next thing Eustace knew was two agonizing jabs in his hand which made him let go  of the tail; and the next thing after that was that the Mouse had picked itself up again as if  it were a ball bouncing off the deck, and there it was facing him, and a horrid long,  bright, sharp thing like a skewer was waving to and fro within an inch of his stomach.  (This doesn't count as below the belt for mice in Narnia because they can hardly be  expected to reach higher.) 
"Stop it," spluttered Eustace, "go away. Put that thing away. It's not safe. Stop it, I say. I'll  tell Caspian. 
I'll have you muzzled and tied up." 
"Why do you not draw your own sword, poltroon!" cheeped the Mouse. "Draw and fight  or I'll beat you black and blue with the flat." 
"I haven't got one," said Eustace. "I'm a pacifist. I don't believe in fighting." 
"Do I understand," said Reepicheep, withdrawing his sword for a moment and speaking  very sternly, "that you do not intend to give me satisfaction?" 
"I don't know what you mean," said Eustace, nursing his hand. "If you don't know how to  take a joke I shan't bother my head about you." 
"Then take that," said Reepicheep, "and that - to teach you manners - and the respect due  to a knight - and a Mouse - and a Mouse's tail -" and at each word he gave Eustace a blow  with the side of his rapier, which was thin, fine dwarf-tempered steel and as supple and  effective as a birch rod. Eustace (of course) was at a school where they didn't have  corporal punishment, so the sensation was quite new to him. That was why, in spite of  having no sealegs, it took him less than a minute to get off that forecastle and cover the  whole length of the deck and burst in at the cabin door - still hotly pursued by 
 
 Reepicheep. Indeed it seemed to Eustace that the rapier as well as the pursuit was hot. It  might have been red-hot by the feel. 
There was not much difficulty in settling the matter once Eustace realized that everyone  took the idea of a duel seriously and heard Caspian offering to lend him a sword, and  Drinian and Edmund discussing whether he ought to be handicapped in some way to  make up for his being so much bigger than Reepicheep. He apologized sulkily and went  off with Lucy to have his hand bathed and bandaged and then went to his bunk. He was  careful to lie on his side. 
 
 
CHAPTER THREE 
THE LONE ISLANDS 
"LAND in sight," shouted the man in the bows. 
Lucy, who had been talking to Rhince on the poop, came pattering down the ladder and  raced forward. As she went she was joined by Edmund, and they found Caspian, Drinian  and Reepicheep already on the forecastle. It was a coldish morning, the sky very pale and  the sea very dark blue with little white caps of foam, and there, a little way off on the  starboard bow, was the nearest of the Lone Islands, Felimath, like a low green hill in the  sea, and behind it, further off, the grey slopes of its sister Doorn. 
"Same old Felimath! Same old Doorn," said Lucy, clapping her hands. "Oh - Edmund,  how long it is since you and I saw them last!" 
"I've never understood why they belong to Narnia," said Caspian. "Did Peter the High  King conquer them?" 
"Oh no," said Edmund. "They were Narnian before our time - in the days of the White  Witch." 
(By the way, I have never yet heard how these remote islands became attached to the  crown of Narnia; if I ever do, and if the story is at all interesting, I may put it in some  other book.) 
"Are we to put in here, Sire?" asked Drinian. 
"1 shouldn't think it would be much good landing on Felimath," said Edmund. "It was  almost uninhabited in our days and it looks as if it was the same still. The people lived  mostly on Doorn and a little on Avra - that's the third one; you can't see it yet. They only  kept sheep on Felimath." 
 
 "Then we'll have to double that cape, I suppose," said Drinian, "and land on Doorn.  That'll mean rowing." 
"I'm sorry we're not landing on Felimath," said Lucy. "I'd like to walk there again. It was  so lonely - a nice kind of loneliness, and all grass and clover and soft sea air." 
"I'd love to stretch my legs now too," said Caspian. "I tell you what. Why shouldn't we go  ashore in the boat and send it back, and then we could walk across Felimath and let the  Dawn Treader pick us up on the other side?" 
If Caspian had been as experienced then as he became later on in this voyage he would  not have made this suggestion; but at the moment it seemed an excellent one. "Oh do  let's," said Lucy. 
"You'll come, will you?" said Caspian to Eustace, who had come on deck with his hand  bandaged. 
"Anything to get off this blasted boat," said Eustace. 
"Blasted?" said Drinian. "How do you mean?" 
"In a civilized country like where I come from," said Eustace, "the ships are so big that  when you're inside you wouldn't know you were at sea at all." 
"In that case you might just as well stay ashore," said Caspian. "Will you tell them to  lower the boat, Drinian." 
The King, the Mouse, the two Pevensies, and Eustace all got into the boat and were  pulled to the beach of Felimath. When the boat had left them and was being rowed back  they all turned and looked round. They were surprised at how small the Dawn Treader  looked. 
Lucy was of course barefoot, having kicked off her shoes while swimming, but that is no  hardship if one is going to walk on downy turf. It was delightful to be ashore again and to  smell the earth and grass, even if at first the ground seemed to be pitching up and down  like a ship, as it usually does for a while if one has been at sea. It was much warmer here  than it had been on board and Lucy found the sand pleasant to her feet as they crossed it.  There was a lark singing. 
They struck inland and up a fairly steep, though low, hill. At the top of course they  looked back, and there was the Dawn Treader shining like a great bright insect and  crawling slowly north-westward with her oars. Then they went over the ridge and could  see her no longer. 
 
 Doom now lay before them, divided from Felimath by a channel about a mile wide;  behind it and to the left lay Avra. The little white town of Narrowhaven on Doorn was  easily seen. 
"Hullo! What's this?" said Edmund suddenly. 
In the green valley to which they were descending six or seven rough-looking men, all  armed, were sitting by a tree. 
"Don't tell them who we are," said Caspian. 
"And pray, your Majesty, why not?" said Reepicheep who had consented to ride on  Lucy's shoulder. 
"It just occurred to me," replied Caspian, "that no one here can have heard from Narnia  for a long time. It's just possible they may not still acknowledge our over-lordship. In  which case it might not be quite safe to be known as the King." 
"We have our swords, Sire," said Reepicheep. 
"Yes, Reep, I know we have," said Caspian. "But if it is a question of re-conquering the  three islands, I'd prefer to come back with a rather larger army." 
By this time they were quite close to the strangers, one of whom - a big black-haired  fellow - shouted out, "A good morning to you." 
"And a good morning to you," said Caspian. "Is there still a Governor of the Lone  Islands?" 
"To be sure there is," said the man, "Governor Gumpas. His Sufficiency is at  Narrowhaven. But you'll stay and drink with us." 
Caspian thanked him, though neither he nor the others much liked the look of their new  acquaintance, and all of them sat down. But hardly had they raised their cups to their lips  when the black-haired man nodded to his companions and, as quick as lightning, all the  five visitors found themselves wrapped in strong arms. There was a moment's struggle  but all the advantages were on one side, and soon everyone was disarmed and had their  hands tied behind their backs except Reepicheep, writhing in his captor's grip and biting  furiously. 
"Careful with that beast, Tacks," said the Leader. "Don't damage him. He'll fetch the best  price of the lot, I shouldn't wonder." 
"Coward! Poltroon!" squeaked Reepicheep. "Give me my sword and free my paws if you  dare." 
 
 "Whew!" whistled the slave merchant (for that is what he was). "It can talk! Well I never  did. Blowed if I take less than two hundred crescents for him." The Calormen crescent,  which is the chief coin in those parts, is worth about a third of a pound. 
"So that's what you are," said Caspian. "A kidnapper and slaver. I hope you're proud of  it." 
"Now, now, now, now," said the slaver. "Don't you start any jaw. The easier you take it,  the pleasanter all round, see? I don't do this for fun. I've got my living to make same as  anyone else." 
"Where will you take us?" asked Lucy, getting the words out with some difficulty. 
"Over to Narrowhaven," said the slaver. "For market day tomorrow." 
"Is there a British Consul there?" asked Eustace. 
"Is there a which?" said the man. 
But long before Eustace was tired of trying to explain, the slaver simply said, "Well, I've  had enough of this jabber. The Mouse is a fair treat but this one would talk the hind leg  off a donkey. Off we go, mates." 
Then the four human prisoners were roped together, not cruelly but securely, and made to  march down to the shore. Reepicheep was carried. He had stopped biting on a threat of  having his mouth tied up, but he had a great deal to say, and Lucy really wondered how  any man could bear to have the things said to him which were said to the slave dealer by  the Mouse. But the slave dealer, far from objecting, only said "Go on" whenever  Reepicheep paused for breath, occasionally adding, "It's as good as a play," or, "Blimey,  you can't help almost thinking it knows what it's saying!" or "Was it one of you what  trained it?" This so infuriated Reepicheep that in the end the number of things he thought  of saying all at once nearly suffocated him and he became silent. 
When they got down to the shore that looked towards Doorn they found a little village  and a long-boat on the beach and, lying a little further out, a dirty bedraggled looking  ship. 
"Now, youngsters," said the slave dealer, "let's have no fuss and then you'll have nothing  to cry about. All aboard." 
At that moment a fine-looking bearded man came out of one of the houses (an inn, I  think) and said: 
"Well, Pug. More of your usual wares?" 
 
 The slaver, whose name seemed to be Pug, bowed very low, and said in a wheedling kind  of voice, "Yes, please your Lordship." 
"How much do you want for that boy?" asked the other, pointing to Caspian. 
"Ah," said Pug, "I knew your Lordship would pick on the best. No deceiving your  Lordship with anything second rate. That boy, now, I've taken a fancy to him myself. Got  kind of fond of him, I have. I'm that tender-hearted I didn't ever ought to have taken up  this job. Still, to a customer like your Lordship-" 
"Tell me your price, carrion," said the Lord sternly. "Do you think I want to listen to the  rigmarole of your filthy trade?" 
"Three hundred crescents, my Lord to your honourable Lordship, but to anyone else -" 
"I'll give you a hundred and fifty." 
"Oh please, please," broke in Lucy. "Don't separate us, whatever you do. You don't know  -" But then she stopped for she saw that Caspian didn't even now want to be known. 
"A hundred and fifty, then," said the Lord. "As for you, little maiden, I am sorry I cannot  buy you all. Unrope my boy, Pug. And look - treat these others well while they are in  your hands or it'll be the worse for you." 
"Well!" said Pug. "Now who ever heard of a gentleman in my way of business who  treated his stock better than what I do? Well? Why, I treat 'em like my own childen." 
"That's likely enough to be true," said the other grimly. 
The dreadful moment had now come. Caspian was untied and his new master said, "This  way, lad," and Lucy burst into tears and Edmund looked very blank. But Caspian looked  over his shoulder and said, "Cheer up. I'm sure it will come all right in the end. So long." 
"Now, missie," said Pug. "Don't you start taking on and spoiling your looks for the  market tomorrow. You be a good girl and then you won't have nothing to cry about, see?" 
Then they were rowed out to the slave-ship and taken below into a long, rather dark  place, none too clean, where they found many other unfortunate prisoners; for Pug was of  course a pirate and had just returned from cruising among the islands and capturing what  he could. The children didn't meet anyone whom they knew; the prisoners were mostly  Galmians and Terebinthians. And there they sat in the straw and wondered what was  happening to Caspian and tried to stop Eustace talking as if everyone except himself was  to blame. 
 
 Meanwhile Caspian was having a much more interesting time. The man who had bought  him led him down a little lane between two of the village houses and so out into an open  place behind the village. Then he turned and faced him. 
"You needn't be afraid of me, boy," he said. "I'll treat you well. I bought you for your  face. You reminded me of someone." ' 
"May I ask of whom, my Lord?" said Caspian. 
"You remind me of my master, King Caspian of Narnia." 
Then Caspian decided to risk everything on one stroke. 
"My Lord," he said, "I am your master. I am Caspian King of Narnia." 
"You make very free," said the other. "How shall I know this is true?" 
"Firstly by my face," said Caspian. "Secondly because I know within six guesses who  you are. You are one of those seven lords of Narnia whom my Uncle Miraz sent to sea  and whom I have come out to look for - Argoz, Bern, Octesian, Restimar, Mavramorn, or  - or - I have forgotten the others. And finally, if your Lordship will give me a sword I will  prove on any man's body in clean battle that I am Caspian the son of Caspian, lawful  King of Narnia, Lord of Cair Paravel, and Emperor of the Lone Islands." 
"By heaven," exclaimed the man, "it is his father's very voice and trick of speech. My  liege - your Majesty -" And there in the field he knelt and kissed the King's hand. 
"The moneys your Lordship disbursed for our person will be made good from our own  treasury," said Caspian. 
"They're not in Pug's purse yet, Sire," said the Lord Bern, for he it was. "And never will  be, I trust. I have moved his Sufficiency the Governor a hundred times to crush this vile  traffic in man's flesh." 
"My Lord Bern," said Caspian, "we must talk of the state of these Islands. But first what  is your Lordship's own story?" 
"Short enough, Sire," said Bern. "I came thus far with my six fellows, loved a girl of the  islands, and felt I had had enough of the sea. And there was no purpose in returning to  Narnia while your Majesty's uncle held the reins. So I married and have lived here ever  since." 
"And what is this governor, this Gumpas, like? Does he still acknowledge the King of  Narnia for his lord?" 
 
 "In words, yes. All is done in the King's name. But he would not be best pleased to find a  real, live King of Narnia coming in upon him. And if your Majesty came before him  alone and unarmed - well he would not deny his allegiance, but he would pretend to  disbelieve you. Your Grace's life would be in danger. What following has your Majesty  in these waters?" 
"There is my ship just rounding the point," said Caspian. "We are about thirty swords if it  came to fighting. Shall we not have my ship in and fall upon Pug and free my friends  whom he holds captive?" 
"Not by my counsel," said Bern. "As soon as there was a fight two or three ships would  put out from Narrowhaven to rescue Pug. Your Majesty must work by a show of more  power than you really have, and by the terror of the King's name. It must not come to  plain battle. Gumpas is a chicken-hearted man and can be over-awed." 
After a little more conversation Caspian and Bern walked down to the coast a little west  of the village and there Caspian winded his horn. (This was not the great magic horn of  Narnia, Queen Susan's Horn: he had left that at home for his regent Trumpkin to use if  any great need fell upon the land in the King's absence.) Drinian, who was on the look- out for a signal, recognized the royal horn at once and the Dawn Treader began standing  in to shore. Then the boat put off again and in a few moments Caspian and the Lord Bern  were on deck explaining the situation to Drinian. He, just like Caspian, wanted to lay the  Dawn Treader alongside the slave-ship at once and board her, but Bern made the same  objection. 
"Steer straight down this channel, captain," said Bern, "and then round to Avra where my  own estates are. But first run up the King's banner, hang out all the shields, and send as  many men to the fighting top as you can. And about five bowshots hence, when you get  open sea on your port bow, run up a few signals." 
"Signals? To whom?" said Drinian. 
"Why, to all the other ships we haven't got but which it might be well that Gumpas thinks  we have." 
"Oh, I see," said Drinian rubbing his hands. "And 
they'll read our signals. What shall I say? Whole fleet round the South of Avra and  assemble at -?" 
"Bernstead," said the Lord Bern. "That'll do excellently. Their whole journey - if there  were any ships What Caspian did there would be out of sight from Narrowhaven." 
Caspian was sorry for the others languishing in the hold of Pug's slave-ship, but he could  not help finding the rest of that day enjoyable. Late in the afternoon (for they had to do  all by oar), having turned to starboard round the northeast end of Doorn and port again 
 
 round the point of Avra, they entered into a good harbour on Avra's southern shore where  Bern's pleasant lands sloped down to the water's edge. Bern's people, many of whom they  saw working in the fields, were all freemen and it was a happy and prosperous fief. Here  they all went ashore and were royally feasted in a low, pillared house overlooking the  bay. Bern and his gracious wife and merry daughters made them good cheer. But after  dark Bern sent a messenger over by boat to Doorn to order some preparations (he did not  say exactly what) for the following day. 
 
 
CHAPTER FOUR 
WHAT CASPIAN DID THERE 
Nert morning the Lord Bern called his guests early, and after breakfast he asked Caspian  to order every man he had into full armour. "And above all," he added, "let everything be  as trim and scoured as if it were the morning of the first battle in a great war between  noble kings with all the world looking on." This was done; and then in three boatloads  Caspian and his people, and Bern with a few of his, put out for Narrowhaven. The king's  flag flew in the stern of his boat and his trumpeter was with him. 
When they reached the jetty at Narrowhaven, Caspian found a considerable crowd  assembled to meet them. "This is what I sent word about last night," said Bern. "They are  all friends of mine and honest people." And as soon as Caspian stepped ashore the crowd  broke out into hurrahs and shouts of, "Narnia! Narnia! Long live the King." At the same  moment - and this was also due to Bern's messengers - bells began ringing from many  parts of the town. Then Caspian caused his banner to be advanced and his trumpet to be  blown and every man drew his sword and set his face into a joyful sternness, and they  marched up the street so that the street shook, and their armour shone (for it was a sunny  morning) so that one could hardly look at it steadily. 
At first the only people who cheered were those who had been warned by Bern's  messenger and knew what was happening and wanted it to happen. But then all the  children joined in because they liked a procession and had seen very few. And then all  the schoolboys joined in because they also liked processions and felt that the more noise  and disturbance there was the less likely they would be to have any school that morning.  And then all the old women put their heads out of doors and windows and began  chattering and cheering because it was a king, and what is a governor compared with  that? And all the young women joined in for the same reason and also because Caspian  and Drinian and the rest were so handsome. And then all the young men came to see what  the young women were looking at, so that by the time Caspian reached the castle gates,  nearly the whole town was shouting; and where Gumpas sat in the castle, muddling and  messing about with accounts and forms and rules and regulations, he heard the noise. 
 
 At the castle gate Caspian's trumpeter blew a blast and cried, "Open for the King of  Narnia, come to visit his trusty and wellbeloved servant the governor of the Lone  Islands." In those days everything in the islands was done in a slovenly, slouching  manner. Only the little postern opened, and out came a tousled fellow with a dirty old hat  on his head instead of a helmet, and a rusty old pike in his hand. He blinked at the  flashing figures before him. "Carn - seez - fishansy," he mumbled which was his way of  saying, -"You can't see his Sufficiency"). "No interviews without 'pointments 'cept 'tween  nine 'n' ten p.m. second Saturday every month." 
"Uncover before Narnia, you dog," thundered the Lord Bern, and dealt him a rap with his  gauntleted hand which sent his hat flying from his head. 
"'Ere? Wot's it all about?" began the doorkeeper, but no one took any notice of him. Two  of Caspian's men stepped through the postern and after some struggling with bars and  bolts (for everything was rusty) flung both wings of the gate wide open. Then the King  and his followers strode into the courtyard. Here a number of the governor's guards were  lounging about and several more (they were mostly wiping their mouths) came tumbling  out of various doorways. Though their armour was in a disgraceful condition, these were  fellows who might have fought if they had been led or had known what was happening;  so this was the dangerous moment. Caspian gave them no time to think. 
"Where is the captain?" he asked. 
"I am, more or less, if you know what I mean," said a languid and rather dandified young  person without any j armour at all. 
"It is our wish," said Caspian, "that our royal visitation to our realm of the Lone Islands  should, if possible, be an occasion of joy and not of terror to our loyal subjects. If it were  not for that, I should have something to say about the state of your men's armour and  weapons. As it is, you are pardoned. Command a cask of wine to be opened that, your  men may drink our health. But at noon tomorrow I wish to see them here in this courtyard  looking like men-at-arms and not like vagabonds. See to it on pain of our extreme  displeasure." 
The captain gaped but Bern immediately cried, "Three. cheers for the King," and the  soldiers, who had understood about the cask of wine even if they understood nothing else,  joined in. Caspian then ordered most of his own men to remain in the courtyard. He, with  Bern and Drinian and four others, went into the hall. 
Behind a table at the far end with various secretaries about him sat his Sufficiency, the  Governor of the Lone Islands. Gumpas was a bilious-looking man with hair that had once  been red and was now mostly grey. He glanced up as the strangers entered and then  looked down at his papers saying automatically, "No interviews without appointments  except between nine and ten p.m. on second Saturdays." 
 
 Caspian nodded to Bern and then stood aside. Bern and Drinian took a step forward and  each seized one end of the table. They lifted it, and flung it on one side of the hall where  it rolled over, scattering a cascade of letters, dossiers, ink-pots, pens, sealing-wax and  documents. Then, not roughly but as firmly as if their hands were pincers of steel, they  plucked Gumpas out of his chair and deposited him, facing it, about four feet away.  Caspian at once sat down in the chair and laid his naked sword across his knees. 
"My Lord," said he, fixing his eyes on Gumpas, "you have not given us quite the  welcome we expected. I am the King of Narnia." 
"Nothing about it in the correspondence," said the governor. "Nothing in the minutes. We  have not been notified of any such thing. All irregular. Happy to consider any  applications-" 
"And we are come to enquire into your Sufficiency's conduct of your office," continued  Caspian. "There are two points especially on which I require an explanation. Firstly I find  no record that the tribute due from these Islands to the crown of Narnia has been received  for about a hundred and fifty years." 
"That would be a question to raise at the Council next month," said Gumpas. "If anyone  moves that a commission of enquiry be set up to report on the financial history of the  islands at the first meeting next year, why then . . ." 
"I also find it very clearly written in our laws," Caspian went on, "that if the tribute is not  delivered the whole debt has to be paid by the Governor of the Lone Islands out of his  private purse." 
At this Gumpas began to pay real attention. "Oh, that's quite out of the question," he said.  "It is an economic impossibility - er - your Majesty must be joking." 
Inside, he was wondering if there were any way of getting rid of these unwelcome  visitors. Had he known that Caspian had only one ship and one ship's company with him,  he would have spoken soft words for the moment, and hoped to have them all surrounded  and killed during the night. But he had seen a ship of war sail down the straits yesterday  and seen it signalling, as he supposed, to its consorts. He had not then known it was the  King's ship for there was not wind enough to spread the flag out and make the golden lion  visible, so he had waited further developments. Now he imagined that Caspian had a  whole fleet at Bernstead. It would never have occurred to Gumpas that anyone would  walk into Narrowhaven to take the islands with less than fifty men; it was certainly not at  all the kind of thing he could imagine doing himself. 
"Secondly," said Caspian, "I want to know why you have permitted this abominable and  unnatural traffic in slaves to grow up here, contrary to the ancient custom and usage of  our dominions." 
 
 "Necessary, unavoidable," said his Sufficiency. "An essential part of the economic  development of the islands, I assure you. Our present burst of prosperity depends on it." 
"What need have you of slaves?" 
"For export, your Majesty. Sell 'em to Calormen mostly; and we have other markets. We  are a great centre of the trade." 
"In other words," said Caspian, "you don't need them. Tell me what purpose they serve  except to put money into the pockets of such as Pug?" 
"Your Majesty's tender years," said Gumpas, with what was meant to be a fatherly smile,  "hardly make it possible that you should understand the economic problem involved. I  have statistics, I have graphs, I have-" 
"Tender as my years be," said Caspian, "I believe I understand the slave trade from  within quite as well as your Sufficiency. And I do not see that it brings into the islands  meat or bread or beer or wine or timber or cabbages or books or instruments of music or  horses or armour or anything else worth having. But whether it does or not, it must be  stopped." 
"But that would be putting the clock back," gasped the governor. "Have you no idea of  progress, of development?" 
"I have seen them both in an egg," said Caspian. "We call it `Going Bad' in Narnia. This  trade must stop." 
"I can take no responsibility for any such measure," said Gumpas. 
"Very well, then," answered Caspian, "we relieve you of your office. My Lord Bern,  come here." And before Gumpas quite realized what was happening, Bern was kneeling  with his hands between the King's hands and taking the oath to govern the Lone Islands  in accordance with the old customs, rights, usages and laws of Narnia. And Caspian said,  "I think we have had enough of governors," and made Bern a Duke, the Duke of the Lone  Islands. 
"As for you, my Lord," he said to Gumpas, "I forgive you your debt for the tribute. But  before noon tomorrow you and yours must be out of the castle, which is now the Duke's  residence." 
"Look here, this is all very well," said one of Gumpas's secretaries, "but suppose all you  gentlemen stop playacting and we do a little business. The question before us really is-" 
"The question is," said the Duke, "whether you and the rest of the rabble will leave  without a flogging or with one. You may choose which you prefer." 
 
 When all this had been pleasantly settled, Caspian ordered horses, of which there were a  few in the castle, though very ill-groomed and he, with Bern and Drinian and a few  others, rode out into the town and made for the slave market. It was a long low building  near the harbour and the scene which they found going on inside was very much like any  other auction; that is to say, there was a great crowd and Pug, on a platform, was roaring  out in a raucous voice: 
"Now, gentlemen, lot twenty-three. Fine Terebinthian agricultural labourer, suitable for  the mines or the galleys. Under twenty-five years of age. Not a bad tooth in his head.  Good, brawny fellow. Take off his shirt, Tacks, and let the gentlemen see. There's muscle  for you! Look at the chest on him. Ten crescents from the gentleman in the corner. You  must be joking, sir. Fifteen! Eighteen! Eighteen is bidden for lot twenty-three. Any  advance on eighteen? Twenty-one. Thank you, sir. Twenty-one is bidden-" 
But Pug stopped and gaped when he saw the mail-clad figures who had clanked up to the  platform. 
"On your knees, every man of you, to the King of Narnia," said the Duke. Everyone  heard the horses jingling and stamping outside and many had heard some rumour of the  landing and the events at the castle. Most obeyed. Those who did not were pulled down  by their neighbours. Some cheered. 
"Your life is forfeit, Pug, for laying hands on our royal person yesterday," said Caspian.  "But your ignorance is pardoned. The slave trade was forbidden in all our dominions  quarter of an hour ago. I declare every slave in this market free." 
He held up his hand to check the cheering of the slaves and went on, "Where are my  friends?" 
"That dear little gel and the nice young gentleman?" said Pug with an ingratiating smile.  "Why, they were snapped up at once-" 
"We're here, we're here, Caspian," cried Lucy and Edmund together and, "At your  service, Sire," piped Reepicheep from another corner. They had all been sold but the men  who had bought them were staying to bid for other slaves and so they had not yet been  taken away. The crowd parted to let the three of them out and there was great  handclasping and greeting between them and Caspian. Two merchants of Calormen at  once approached. The Calormen have dark faces and long beards. They wear flowing  robes and orange-coloured turbans, and they are a wise, wealthy, courteous, cruel and  ancient people. They bowed most politely to Caspian and paid him long compliments, all  about the fountains of prosperity irrigating the gardens of prudence and virtue - and  things like that - but of course what they wanted was the money they had paid. 
"That is only fair, sirs," said Caspian. "Every man who has bought a slave today must  have his money back. Pug, bring out your takings to the last minim." (A minim is the  fortieth part of a crescent.) 
 
  
"Does your good Majesty mean to beggar me?" whined Pug. 
"You have lived on broken hearts all your life," said Caspian, "and if you are beggared, it  is better to be a beggar than a slave. But where is my other friend?" 
"Oh him?" said Pug. "Oh take him and welcome. Glad to have him off my hands. I've  never seen such a drug in the market in all my born days. Priced him at five crescents in  the end and even so nobody'd have him. Threw him in free with other lots and still no one  would have him. Wouldn't touch him. Wouldn't look at him. 'Packs, bring out Sulky." 
Thus Eustace was produced, and sulky he certainly looked; for though no one would  want to be sold as a slave, it is perhaps even more galling to be a sort of utility slave  whom no one will buy. He walked up to Caspian and said, "I see. As usual. Been  enjoying yourself somewhere while the rest of us were prisoners. I suppose you haven't  even found out about the British Consul. Of course not." 
That night they had a great feast in the castle of Narrowhaven and then, "Tomorrow for  the beginning of our real adventures!" said Reepicheep when he had made his bows to  everyone and went to bed. But it could not really be tomorrow or anything like it. For  now they were preparing to leave all known lands and seas behind them and the fullest  preparations had to be made. The Dawn Treader was emptied and drawn on land by eight  horses over rollers and every bit of her was gone over by the most skilled shipwrights.  Then she was launched again and victualled and watered as full as she could hold - that is  to say for twenty-eight days. Even this, as Edmund noticed with disappointment, only  gave them a fortnight's eastward sailing before they had to abandon their quest. 
While all this was being done Caspian missed no chance of questioning all the oldest sea  captains whom he could find in Narrowhaven to learn if they had any knowledge or even  any rumours of land further to the east. He poured out many a flagon of the castle ale to  weather-beaten men with short grey beards and clear blue eyes, and many a tall yarn he  heard in return. But those who seemed the most truthful could tell of no lands beyond the  Lone Islands, and many thought that if you sailed too far east you would come into the  surges of a sea without lands that swirled perpetually round the rim of the world - "And  that, I reckon, is where your Majesty's friends went to the bottom." The rest had only wild  stories of islands inhabited by headless men, floating islands, waterspouts, and a fire that  burned along the water. Only one, to Reepicheep's delight, said, "And beyond that, Aslan  country. But that's beyond the end of the world and you can't get there." But when they  questioned -him he could only say that he'd heard it from his father. 
Bern could only tell them that he had seen his six companions sail away eastward and  that nothing had, ever been heard of them again. He said this when he and Caspian were  standing on the highest point of Avra looking down on the eastern ocean. "I've often been  up here of a morning," said the Duke, "ands seen the sun come up out of the sea, and  sometimes it looked as if it were only a couple of miles away. And I've wondered about  my friends and wondered what there really is behind that horizon. Nothing, most likely, 
 
 yet I am always half ashamed that I stayed behind. But I wish your Majesty wouldn't go.  We may need your help here. This closing the slave market might make a new world; war  with Calormen is what I foresee. My liege, think again." 
"I have an oath, my lord Duke," said Caspian. "And anyway, what could I say to  Reepicheep?" 
 
 
CHAPTER FIVE 
THE STORM AND WHAT CAME OF IT 
IT was nearly three weeks after their landing that the Dawn Treader was towed out of  Narrowhaven harbour. Very solemn farewells had been spoken and a great crowd had  assembled to see her departure. There had been cheers, and tears too, when Caspian made  his last speech to the Lone Islanders and parted from the Duke and his family, but as the  ship, her purple sail still flapping idly, drew further from the shore, and the sound of  Caspian's trumpet from the poop came fainter across the water, everyone became silent.  Then she came into the wind. The sail swelled out, the tug cast off and began rowing  back, the first real wave ran up under the Dawn Treader's prow, and she was a live ship  again. The men off duty went below, Drinian took the first watch on the poop, and she  turned her head eastward round the south of Avra. 
The next few days were delightful. Lucy thought she was the most fortunate girl in the  world; as she woke each morning to see the reflections of the sunlit water dancing on the  ceiling of her cabin and looked round on all the nice new things she had got in the Lone  Islands - seaboots and buskins and cloaks and jerkins and scarves. And then she would go  on deck and take a look from the forecastle at a sea which was a brighter blue each  morning and drink in an air that was a little warmer day by day. After that came breakfast  and such an appetite as one only has at sea. 
She spent a good deal of time sitting on the little bench in the stern playing chess with  Reepicheep. It was amusing to see him lifting the pieces, which were far too big for him,  with both paws and standing on tiptoes if he made a move near the centre of the board.  He was a good player and when he remembered what he was doing he usually won. But  every now and then Lucy won because the Mouse did something quite ridiculous like  sending a knight into the danger of a queen and castle combined. This happened because  he had momentarily forgotten it was a game of chess and was thinking of a real battle and  making the knight do what he would certainly have done in its place. For his mind was  full of forlorn hopes, death-or-glory charges, and last stands. 
But this pleasant time did not last. There came an evening when Lucy, gazing idly astern  at the long furrow or wake they were leaving behind them, saw a great rack of clouds  building itself up in the west with amazing speed. 
 
  
Then a gap was torn in it and a yellow sunset poured through the gap. All the waves  behind them seemed to take on unusual shapes and the sea was a drab or yellowish colour  like dirty canvas. The air grew cold. The ship seemed to move uneasily as if she felt  danger behind he The sail would be flat and limp one minute and wildly the next. While  she was noting these things and wondering at a sinister change which had come over the  very noise the wind, Drinian cried, "All hands on deck." In a moment everyone became  frantically busy. The hatches wet battened down, the galley fire was put out, men went  aloft to reef the sail. Before they had finished the storm struck them. It seemed to Lucy  that a great valley in the sea opened just before their bows, and they rushed down in it,  deeper down than she would have believed possible. A great grey hill of water, far higher  than the mast, rushed to meet them; it looked certain death but they were tossed to the top  of it. Then the ship seemed to spin round. A cataract of water poured over the deck; the  poop and forecastle were like two islands with a fierce sea between them. aloft the sailors  were lying out along the yard desperate trying to get control of the sail. A broken rope  stood out sideways in the wind as straight and stiff as if it was poker. 
"Get below, Ma'am," bawled Drinian. And Lucy knowing that landsmen - and  landswomen - are a nuisance to the crew, began to obey. It was not easy. The Dawn  Treader was listing terribly to starboard and the deck sloped like the roof of a house. She  had to clamber round to the top of the ladder, holding on to the rail, and the stand by  while two men climbed up it, and then get down as best she could. It was well she was  already holding tight for at the foot of the ladder another wave roar across the deck, up to  her shoulders. She was already almost wet through with spray and rain but this was  colder. Then she made a dash for the cabin door and got in and shut out for a moment the  appalling sight of the speed with which they were rushing into the dark, but not of course  the horrible confusion of creakings, groanings, snappings, clatterings, roarings and  boomings which only sounded more alarming below than they had done on the poop. 
And all next day and all the next it went on. It went on till one could hardly even  remember a time before it had begun. And there always had to be three men at the tiller  and it was as much as three could do to keep any kind of a course. And there always had  to be men at the pump. And there was hardly any rest for anyone, and nothing could be  cooked and nothing could be dried, and one man was lost overboard, and they never saw  the sun. 
When it was over Eustace made the following entry in his diary. 
"3 September. The first day for ages when I have been able to write. We had been driven  before a hurricane for thirteen days and nights. I know that because I kept a careful count,  though the others all say it was only twelve. Pleasant to be embarked on a dangerous  voyage with people who can't even count right! I have had a ghastly time, up and down  enormous waves hour after hour, usually wet to the skin, and not even an attempt at  giving us proper meals. Needless to say there's no wireless or even a rocket, so no chance  of signalling anyone for help. It all proves what I keep on telling them, the madness of  setting out in a rotten little tub like this. It would be bad enough even if one was with 
 
 decent people instead of fiends in human form. Caspian and Edmund are simply brutal to  me. The night we lost our mast (there's only a stump left now), though I was not at all  well, they forced me to come on deck and work like a slave. Lucy shoved her oar in by  saying that Reepicheep was longing to go only he was too small. I wonder she doesn't see  that everything that little beast does is all for the sake of showing off. Even at her age she  ought to have that amount of sense. Today the beastly boat is level at last and the sun's  out and we have all been jawing about what to do. We have food enough, pretty beastly  stuff most of it, to last for sixteen days. (The poultry were all washed overboard. Even if  they hadn't been, the storm would have stopped them laying.) The real trouble is water.  Two casks seem to have got a leak knocked in them and are empty. (Narnian efficiency  again.) On short rations, half a pint a day each, we've got enough for twelve days.  (There's still lots of rum and wine but even they realize that would only make them  thirstier.) 
"If we could, of course, the sensible thing would be to turn west at once and make for the  Lone Islands. But it took us eighteen days to get where we are, running like mad with a  gale behind us. Even if we got an east wind it might take us far longer to get back. And at  present there's no sign of an east wind - in fact there's no wind at all. As for rowing back,  it would take far too long and Caspian says the men couldn't row on half a pint of water a  day. I'm pretty sure this is wrong. I tried to explain that perspiration really cools people  down, so the men would need less water if they were working. He didn't take any notice  of this, which is always his way when he can't think of an answer. The others all voted  for going on in the hope of finding land. I felt it my duty to point out that we didn't know  there was any land ahead and tried to get them to see the dangers of wishful thinking.  Instead of producing a better plan they had the cheek to ask me what I proposed. So I just  explained coolly and quietly that I had been kidnapped and brought away on this idiotic  voyage without my consent, and it was hardly my business to get them out of their  scrape. 
"4 September. Still becalmed. Very short rations for dinner and I got less than anyone.  Caspian is very clever at helping and thinks I don't see! Lucy for some reason tried to  make up to me by offering me some of hers but that interfering prig Edmund wouldn't let  her. Pretty hot sun. Terribly thirsty all evening. 
"5 September. Still becalmed and very hot. Feeling rotten all day and am sure I've got a  temperature. Of course they haven't the sense to keep a thermometer on board. 
"6 September. A horrible day. Woke up in the night knowing I was feverish and must  have a drink of water. Any doctor would have said so. Heaven knows I'm the last person  to try to get any unfair advantage but I never dreamed that this water-rationing would be  meant to apply to a sick man. In fact I would have woken the others up and asked for  some only I thought it would be selfish to wake them. So I got up and took my cup and  tiptoed out of the Black Hole we slept in, taking great care not to disturb Caspian and  Edmund, for they've been sleeping badly since the heat and the short water began. I  always try to consider others whether they are nice to me or not. I got out all right into the  big room, if you can call it a room, where the rowing benches and the luggage are. The 
 
 thing of water is at this end. All was going beautifully, but before I'd drawn a cupful who  should catch me but that little spy Reep. I tried to explain that I was going on deck for a  breath of air (the business about the water had nothing to do with him) and he asked me  why I had a cup. He made such a noise that the whole ship was roused. They treated me  scandalously. I asked, as I think anyone would have, why Reepicheep was sneaking about  the water cask in the middle of the night. He said that as he was too small to be any use  on deck, he did sentry over the water every night so that one more man could go to sleep.  Now comes their rotten unfairness: they all believed him. Can you beat it? 
"I had to apologize or the dangerous little brute would have been at me with his sword.  And then Caspian showed up in his true colours as a brutal tyrant and said out loud for  everyone to hear that anyone found "stealing" water in future would "get two dozen". I  didn't know what this meant till Edmund explained to me. It comes in the sort of books  those Pevensie kids read. 
"After this cowardly threat Caspian changed his tune and started being patronizing. Said  he was sorry for me and that everyone felt just as feverish as I did and we must all make  the best of it, etc., etc. Odious stuck-up prig. Stayed in bed all day today. 
"7 September. A little wind today but still from the west. 
Made a few miles eastward with part of the sail, set on what Drinian calls the jury-mast- that means the bowsprit set upright and tied (they call it "lashed") to the stump of the real  mast. Still terribly thirsty. 
"8 September. Still sailing east. I stay in my bunk all day now and see no one except  Lucy till the two fiends come to bed. Lucy gives me a little of her water ration. She says  girls don't get as thirsty as boys. I had often thought this but it ought to be more generally  known at sea. 
"9 September. Land in sight; a very high mountain a long way off to the south-east. 
"10 September. The mountain is bigger and clearer but still a long way off. Gulls again  today for the first time since I don't know how long. 
"11 September. Caught some fish and had them for dinner. Dropped anchor at about 7  p.m. in three fathoms of water in a bay of this mountainous island. That idiot Caspian  wouldn't let us go ashore because it was getting dark and he was afraid of savages and  wild beasts. Extra water ration tonight." 
What awaited them on this island was going to concern Eustace more than anyone else,  but it cannot be told in his words because after September 11 he forgot about keeping his  diary for a long time. 
When morning came, with a low, grey sky but very hot, the adventurers found they were  in a bay encircled by such cliffs and crags that it was like a Norwegian fjord. In front of 
 
 them, at the head of the bay, there was some level land heavily overgrown with trees that  appeared to be cedars, through which a rapid stream came out. Beyond that was a steep  ascent ending in a jagged ridge and behind that a vague darkness of mountains which ran  into dull-coloured clouds so that you could not see their tops. The nearer cliffs, at each  side of the bay, were streaked here and there with lines of white which everyone knew to  be waterfalls, though at that distance they did not show any movement or make any  noise. Indeed the whole place was very silent and the water of the bay as smooth as glass.  It reflected every detail of the cliffs. The scene would have been pretty in a picture but  was rather oppressive in real life. It was not a country that welcomed visitors. 
The whole ship's company went ashore in two boatloads and everyone drank and washed  deliciously in the river and had a meal and a rest before Caspian sent four men back to  keep the ship, and the day's work began. There was everything to be done. The casks  must be brought ashore and the faulty ones mended if possible and all refilled; a tree - a  pine if they could get it - must be felled and made into a new mast; sails must be repaired;  a hunting party organized to shoot any game the land might yield; clothes to be washed  and mended; and countless small breakages on board to be set right. For the Dawn  Treader herself - and this was more obvious now that they saw her at a distance - could  hardly be recognized as the same gallant ship which had left Narrowhaven. She looked a  crippled, discoloured hulk which anyone might have taken for a wreck. And her officers  and crew were no better - lean, pale, red-eyed from lack of sleep, and dressed in rags. 
As Eustace lay under a tree and heard all these plans being discussed his heart sank. Was  there going to be no rest? It looked as if their first day on the longed-for land was going  to be quite as hard work as a day at sea. Then a delightful idea occurred to him. Nobody  was looking they were all chattering about their ship as if they actually liked the beastly  thing. Why shouldn't he simply slip away? He would take a stroll inland, find a cool, airy  place up in the mountains, have a good long sleep, and not rejoin the others till the day's  work was over. He felt it would do him good. But he would take great care to keep the  bay and the ship in sight so as to be sure of his way back. He wouldn't like to be left  behind in this country. 
He at once put his plan into action. He rose quietly from his place and walked away  among the trees, taking care to go slowly and in an aimless manner so that anyone who  saw him would think he was merely stretching his legs. He was surprised to find how  quickly the noise of conversation died away behind hiin and how very silent and warm  and dark green the wood became. Soon he felt he could venture on a quicker and more  determined stride. 
This soon brought him out of the wood. The ground began sloping steeply up in front of  him. The grass was dry and slippery but manageable if he used his hands as well as his  feet, and though he panted and mopped his forehead a good deal, he plugged away  steadily. This showed, by the way, that his new life, little as he suspected it, had already  done him some good; the old Eustace, Harold and Alberta's Eustace, would have given  up the climb after about ten minutes. 
 
 Slowly, and with several rests, he reached the ridge. Here he had expected to have a view  into the heart of the island, but the clouds had now come lower and nearer and a sea of  fog was rolling to meet him. He sat down and looked back. He was now so high that the  bay looked small beneath him and miles of sea were visible. Then the fog from the  mountains closed in all round him, thick but not cold, and he lay down and turned this  way and that to find the most comfortable position to enjoy himself. 
But he didn't enjoy himself, or not for very long. He began, almost for the first time in his  life, to feel lonely. At first this feeling grew very gradually. And then he began to worry  about the time. There was not the slightest sound. Suddenly it occurred to him that he  might have been lying there for hours. Perhaps the others had gone! Perhaps they had let  him wander away on purpose simply in order to leave him behind! He leaped up in a  panic and began the descent. 
At first he tried to do it too quickly, slipped on the steep grass, and slid for several feet.  Then he thought this had carried him too far to the left - and as he came up he had seen  precipices on that side. So he clambered up again, as near as he could guess to the place  he had started from, and began the descent afresh, bearing to his right. After that things  seemed to be going better. He went very cautiously, for he could not see more than a yard  ahead, and there was still perfect silence all around him. It is very unpleasant to have to  go cautiously when there is a voice inside you saying all the time, "Hurry, hurry, hurry."  For every moment the terrible idea of being left behind grew stronger. If he had  understood Caspian and the Pevensies at all he would have known, of course, that there  was not the least chance of their doing any such thing. But he had persuaded himself that  they were all fiends in human form. 
"At last!" said Eustace as he came slithering down a slide of loose stones (scree, they call  it) and found himself on the level. "And now, where are those trees? There is something  dark ahead. Why, I do believe the fog is clearing." 
It was. The light increased every moment and made him blink. The fog lifted. He was in  an utterly unknown valley and the sea was nowhere in sight. 
 
 
CHAPTER SIX 
THE ADVENTURES OF EUSTACE 
AT that very moment the others were washing hands and faces in the river and generally  getting ready for dinner and a rest. The three best archers had gone up into the hills north  of the bay and returned laden with a pair of wild goats which were now roasting over a  fire. Caspian had ordered a cask of wine ashore, strong wine of Archenland which had to  be mixed with water before you drank it, so there would be plenty for all. The work had 
 
 gone well so far and it was a merry meal. Only after the second helping of goat did  Edmund say, "Where's that blighter Eustace?" 
Meanwhile Eustace stared round the unknown valley. It was so narrow and deep, and the  precipices which surrounded it so sheer, that it was like a huge pit or trench. The floor  was grassy though strewn with rocks, and here and there Eustace saw black burnt patches  like those you see on the sides of a railway embankment in a dry summer. 
About fifteen yards away from him was a pool of clear, smooth water. There was, at first,  nothing else at all in the valley; not an animal, not a bird, not an insect. The sun beat  down and grim peaks and horns of mountains peered over the valley's edge. 
Eustace realized of course that in the fog he had come down the wrong side of the ridge,  so he turned at once to see about getting back. But as soon as he had looked he  shuddered. Apparently he had by amazing luck found the only possible way down - a  long green spit of land, horribly steep and narrow, with precipices on either side. There  was no other possible way of getting back. But could he do it, now that he saw what it  was really like? His head swam at the very thought of it. 
He turned round again, thinking that at any rate he'd better have a good drink from the  pool first. But as soon as he had turned and before he had taken a step forward into the  valley he heard a noise behind him. It was only a small noise but it sounded loud in that  immense silence. It froze him dead-still where he stood for a second. Then he slewed  round his neck and looked. 
At the bottom of the cliff a little on his left hand was a low, dark hole - the entrance to a  cave perhaps. And out of this two thin wisps of smoke were coming. And the loose stones  just beneath the dark hollow were moving (that was the noise he had heard) just as if  something were crawling in the dark behind them. 
Something was crawling. Worse still, something was coming out. Edmund or Lucy or  you would have recognized it at once, but Eustace had read none of the right books. The  thing that came out of the cave was something he had never even imagined - along lead- coloured snout, dull red eyes, no feathers or fur, a long lithe body that trailed on the  ground, legs whose elbows went up higher than its back like a spider's cruel claws, bat's  wings that made a rasping noise on the stones, yards of tail. And the lines of smoke were  coming from its two nostrils. He never said the word Dragon to himself. Nor would it  have made things any better if he had. 
But perhaps if he had known something about dragons he would have been a little  surprised at this dragon's behaviour. It did not sit up and clap its wings, nor did it shoot  out a stream of flame from its mouth. The smoke from its nostrils was like the smoke of a  fire that will not last much longer. Nor did it seem to have noticed Eustace. It moved very  slowly towards the pool - slowly and with many pauses. Even in his fear Eustace felt that  it was an old, sad creature. He wondered if he dared make a dash for the ascent. But it  might look round if he made any noise. It might come more to life. Perhaps it was only 
 
 shamming. Anyway, what was the use of trying to escape by climbing from a creature  that could fly? 
It reached the pool and slid its horrible scaly chin down over the gravel to drink: but  before it had drunk there came from it a great croaking or clanging cry and after a few  twitches and convulsions it rolled round on its side and lay perfectly still with one claw in  the air. A little dark blood gushed from its wide-opened mouth. The smoke from its  nostrils turned black for a moment and then floated away. No more came. this was the  brute's trick, the way it lured travellers to their doom. But one couldn't wait for ever. He  took a step nearer, then two steps, and halted again. The dragon remained motionless; he  noticed too that the red fire had gone out of its eyes. At last he came up to it. He was  quite sure now that it was dead. With a shudder he touched it; nothing happened. 
The relief was so great that Eustace almost laughed out loud. He began to feel as if he  had fought and killed the dragon instead of merely seeing it die. He stepped over it and  went to the pool for his drink, for the heat was getting unbearable. He was not surprised  when he heard a peal of thunder. Almost immediately afterwards the sun disappeared and  before he had finished his drink big drops of rain were falling. 
The climate of this island was a very unpleasant one. In less than a minute Eustace was  wet to the skin and half blinded with such rain as one never sees in Europe. There was no  use trying to climb out of the valley as long as this lasted. He bolted for the only shelter  in sight - the dragon's cave. There he lay down and tried to get his breath. 
Most of us know what we should expect to find in a dragon's lair, but, as I said before,  Eustace had read only the wrong books. They had a lot to say about exports and imports  and governments and drains, but they were weak on dragons. That is why he was so  puzzled at the surface on which he was lying. Parts of it were too prickly to be stones and  too hard to be thorns, and there seemed to be a great many round, flat things, and it all  clinked when he moved. There was light enough at the cave's mouth to examine it by.  And of course Eustace found it to be what any of us could have told him in advance -  treasure. There were crowns (those were the prickly things), coins, rings, bracelets,  ingots, cups, plates and gems. 
Eustace (unlike most boys) had never thought much of treasure but he saw at once the use  it would be in this new world which he had so foolishly stumbled into through the picture  in Lucy's bedroom at home. "They don't have any tax here," he said, "And you don't have  to give treasure to the government. With some of this stuff I could have quite a decent  time here - perhaps in Calormen. It sounds the least phoney of these countries. I wonder  how much I can carry? That bracelet now - those things in it are probably diamonds - I'll  slip that on my own wrist. Too big, but not if I push it right up here above my elbow.  Then fill my pockets with diamonds - that's easier than gold. I wonder when this infernal  rain's going to let up?" He got into a less uncomfortable part of the pile, where it was  mostly coins, and settled down to wait. But a bad fright, when once it is over, and  especially a bad fright following a mountain walk, leaves you very tired. Eustace fell  asleep. 
 
  
By the time he was sound asleep and snoring the others had finished dinner and became  seriously alarmed about him. They shouted, "Eustace! Eustace! Coo-ee!" till they were  hoarse and Caspian blew his horn. 
"He's nowhere near or he'd have heard that," said Lucy with a white face. 
"Confound the fellow," said Edmund. "What on earth did he want to slink away like this  for?" 
"But we must do something," said Lucy. "He may have got lost, or fallen into a hole, or  been captured by savages." 
"Or killed by wild beasts," said Drinian. 
"And a good riddance if he has, I say," muttered Rhince. 
"Master Rhince," said Reepicheep, "you never spoke a word that became you less. The  creature is no friend of mine but he is of the Queen's blood, and while he is one of our  fellowship it concerns our honour to find him and to avenge him if he is dead." 
"Of course we've got to find him (if we can)," said Caspian wearily. "That's the nuisance  of it. It means a search party and endless trouble. Bother Eustace." 
Meanwhile Eustace slept and slept - and slept. What woke him was a pain in his arm. The  moon was shining in at the mouth of the cave, and the bed of treasures seemed to have  grown much more comfortable: in fact he could hardly feel it at all. He was puzzled by  the pain in his arm at first, but presently it occurred to him that the bracelet which he had  shoved up above his elbow had become strangely tight. His arm must have swollen while  he was asleep (it was his left arm). 
He moved his right arm in order to feel his left, but stopped before he had moved it an  inch and bit his lip in terror. For just in front of him, and a little on his right, where the  moonlight fell clear on the floor of the cave, he saw a hideous shape moving. He knew  that shape: it was a dragon's claw. It had moved as he moved his hand and became still  when he stopped moving his hand. 
"Oh, what a fool I've been," thought Eustace. "Of course, the brute had a mate and it's  lying beside me." 
For several minutes he did not dare to move a muscle. He saw two thin columns of smoke  going up before his eyes, black against the moonlight; just as there had been smoke  coming from the other dragon's nose before it died. This was so alarming that he held his  breath. The two columns of smoke vanished. When he could hold his breath no longer he  let it out stealthily; instantly two jets of smoke appeared again. But even yet he had no  idea of the truth. 
 
  
Presently he decided that he would edge very cautiously to his left and try to creep out of  the cave. Perhaps the creature was asleep - and anyway it was his only chance. But of  course before he edged to the left he looked to the left. Oh horror! there was a dragon's  claw on that side too. 
No one will blame Eustace if at this moment he shed tears. He was surprised at the size of  his own tears as he saw them splashing on to the treasure in front of him. They also  seemed strangely hot; steam went up from them. 
But there was no good crying. He must try to crawl out from between the two dragons.  He began extending his right arm. The dragon's fore-leg and claw on his right went  through exactly the same motion. Then he thought he would try his left. The dragon limb  on that side moved too. 
Two dragons, one on each side, mimicking whatever he did! His nerve broke and he  simply made a bolt for it. 
There was such a clatter and rasping, and clinking of gold, and grinding of stones, as he  rushed out of the cave that he thought they were both following him. He daren't look  back. He rushed to the pool. The twisted shape of the dead dragon lying in the moonlight  would have been enough to frighten anyone but now he hardly noticed it. His idea was to  get into the water. 
But just as he reached the edge of the pool two things happened. First of all it came over  him like a thunder-clap that he had been running on all fours - and why on earth had he  been doing that? And secondly, as he bent towards the water, he thought for a second that  yet another dragon was staring up at him out of the pool. But in an instant he realized the  truth. The dragon face in the pool was his own reflection. There was no doubt of it. It  moved as he moved: it opened and shut its mouth as he opened and shut his. 
He had turned into a dragon while he was asleep. Sleeping on a dragon's hoard with  greedy, dragonish thoughts in his heart, he had become a dragon himself. 
That explained everything. There had been no two dragons beside him in the cave. The  claws to right and left had been his own right and left claw. The two columns of smoke  had been coming from his own nostrils. As for the pain in his left arm (or what had been  his left arm) he could now see what had happened by squinting with his left eye. The  bracelet which had fitted very nicely on the upper arm of a boy was far too small for the  thick, stumpy foreleg of a dragon. It had sunk deeply into his scaly flesh and there was a  throbbing bulge on each side of it. He tore at the place with his dragon's teeth but could  not get it off. 
In spite of the pain, his first feeling was one of relief. There was nothing to be afraid of  any more. He was a terror himself and nothing in the world but a knight (and not all of  those) would dare to attack him. He could get even with Caspian and Edmund now But 
 
 the moment he thought this he realized that he didn't want to. He wanted to be friends. He  wanted to get back among humans and talk and laugh and share things. He realized that  he was a monster cut off from the whole human race. An appalling loneliness came over  him. He began to see that the others had not really been fiends at all. He began to wonder  if he himself had been such a nice person as he had always supposed. He longed for their  voices. He would have been grateful for a kind word even from Reepicheep. 
When he thought of this the poor dragon that had been Eustace lifted up its voice and  wept. A powerful dragon crying its eyes out under the moon in a deserted valley is a sight  and a sound hardly to be imagined. 
At last he decided he would try to find his way back to the shore. He realized now that  Caspian would never have sailed away and left him. And he felt sure that somehow or  other he would be able to make people understand who he was. 
He took a long drink and then (I know this sounds shocking, but it isn't if you think it  over) he ate nearly all the dead dragon. He was half-way through it before he realized  what he was doing; for, you see, though his mind was the mind of Eustace, his tastes and  his digestion were dragonish. And there is nothing a dragon likes so well as fresh dragon.  That is why you so seldom find more than one dragon in the same county. 
Then he turned to climb out of the valley. He began the climb with a jump and as soon as  he jumped he found that he was flying. He had quite forgotten about his wings and it was  a great surprise to him - the first pleasant surprise he had had for a long time. He rose  high into the air and saw innumerable mountain-tops spread out beneath him in the  moonlight. He could see the bay like a silver slab and the Dawn Treader lying at anchor  and camp fires twinkling in the woods beside the beach. From a great height he launched  himself down towards them in a single glide. 
Lucy was sleeping very soundly for she had sat up till the return of the search party in  hope of good news about Eustace. It had been led by Caspian and had come back late and  weary. Their news was disquieting. They had found no trace of Eustace but had seen a  dead dragon in a valley. They tried to make the best of it and everyone assured everyone  else that there were not likely to he more dragons about, and that one which was dead at  about three o'clock that afternoon (which was when they had seen it) would hardly have  been killing people a very few hours before. 
"Unless it ate the little brat and died of him: he'd poison anything," said Rhince. But he  said this under his breath and no one heard it. 
But later in the night Lucy was wakened, very softly, and found the whole company  gathered close together and talking in whispers. 
"What is it?" said Lucy. 
 
 "We must all show great constancy," Caspian was saying. "A dragon has just flown over  the tree-tops and lighted on the beach. Yes, I am afraid it is between us and the ship. And  arrows are no use against dragons. And they're not at all afraid of fire." 
"With your Majesty's leave-" began Reepicheep. 
"No, Reepicheep," said the King very firmly, "you are not to attempt a single combat  with it. And unless you promise to obey me in this matter I'll have you tied up. We must  just keep close watch and, as soon as it is light, go down to the beach and give it battle. I  will lead. King Edmund will be on my right and the Lord Drinian on my left. There are  no other arrangements to be made. It will be light in a couple of hours. In an hour's time  let a meal be served out and what is left of the wine. And let everything be done silently." 
"Perhaps it will go away," said Lucy. 
"It'll be worse if it does," said Edmund, "because then we shan't know where it is. If  there's a wasp in the room I like to be able to see it." 
The rest of the night wa dreadful, and when the meal came, though they knew they ought  to eat, many found that they had very poor appetites. And endless hours seemed to pass  before the darkness thinned and birds began chirping here and there and the world got  colder and wetter than it had been all night and Caspian said, "Now for it, friends." 
They got up, all with swords drawn, and formed themselves into a solid mass with Lucy  in the middle and Reepicheep on her shoulder. It was nicer than the waiting about and  everyone felt fonder of everyone else than at ordinary times. A moment later they were  marching. It grew lighter as they came to the edge of the wood. And there on the sand,  like a giant lizard, or a flexible crocodile, or a serpent with legs, huge and horrible and  humpy, lay the dragon. 
But when it saw them, instead of rising up and blowing fire and smoke, the dragon  retreated - you could almost say it waddled - back into the shallows of the bay. 
"What's it wagging its head like that for?" said Edmund. 
"And now it's nodding," said Caspian. 
"And there's something coming from its eyes," said Drinian. 
"Oh, can't you see," said Lucy. "It's crying. Those are tears." 
"I shouldn't trust to that, Ma'am," said Drinian. "That's what crocodiles do, to put you off  your guard." 
"It wagged its head when you said that," remarked Edmund. "Just as if it meant No.  Look, there it goes again." 
 
  
"Do you think it understands what we're saying?" asked Lucy. 
The dragon nodded its head violently. 
Reepicheep slipped off Lucy's shoulder and stepped to the front. 
"Dragon," came his shrill voice, "can you understand speech?" 
The dragon nodded. 
"Can you speak?" 
It shook its head. 
"Then," said Reepicheep, "it is idle to ask you your business. But if you will swear  friendship with us raise your left foreleg above your head." 
It did so, but clumsily because that leg was sore and swollen with the golden bracelet 
"Oh look," said Lucy, "there's something wrong with its leg. The poor thing - that's  probably what it was crying about. Perhaps it came to us to be cured like in Androcles  and the lion." 
"Be careful, Lucy," said Caspian. "It's a very clever dragon but it may be a liar." 
Lucy had, however, already run forward, followed by Reepicheep, as fast as his short legs  could carry him, and then of course the boys and Drinian came, too. 
"Show me your poor paw," said Lucy, "I might be able to cure it." 
The dragon-that-had-been-Eustace held out its sore leg gladly enough, remembering how  Lucy's cordial had cured him of sea-sickness before he became a dragon. But he was  disappointed. The magic fluid reduced the swelling and eased the pain a little but it could  not dissolve the gold. 
Everyone had now crowded round to watch the treatment, and Caspian suddenly  exclaimed, "Look!" He was staring at the bracelet. 
 
 
CHAPTER SEVEN 
HOW THE ADVENTURE ENDED 
 
 "LOOK at what?" said Edmund. 
"Look at the device on the gold," said Caspian. 
"A little hammer with a diamond above it like a star," said Drinian. "Why, I've seen that  before." 
"Seen it!" said Caspian. "Why, of course you have. It is the sign of a great Narnian house.  This is the Lord Octesian's arm-ring." 
"Villain," said Reepicheep to the dragon, "have you devoured a Narnian lord?" But the  dragon shook his head violently. 
"Or perhaps," said Lucy, "this is the Lord Octesian, turned into a dragon - under an  enchantment, you know." 
"It needn't be either," said Edmund. "All dragons collect gold. But I think it's a safe guess  that Octesian got no further than this island." 
"Are you the Lord Octesian?" said Lucy to the dragon, and then, when it sadly shook its  head, "Are you someone enchanted - someone human, I mean?" 
It nodded violently. 
And then someone said - people disputed afterwards whether Lucy or Edmund said it first  - "You're not - not Eustace by any chance?" 
And Eustace nodded his terrible dragon head and thumped his tail in the sea and  everyone skipped back (some of the sailors with ejaculations I will not put down in  writing) to avoid the enormous and boiling tears which flowed from his eyes. 
Lucy tried hard to console him and even screwed up her courage to kiss the scaly face,  and nearly everyone said "Hard luck" and several assured Eustace that they would all  stand by him and many said there was sure to be some way of disenchanting him and  they'd have him as right as rain in a day or two. And of course they were all very anxious  to hear his story, but he couldn't speak. More than once in the days that followed he  attempted to write it for them on the sand. But, this never succeeded. In the first place  Eustace (never having read the right books) had no idea how to tell a story straight. And  for another thing, the muscles and nerves of the dragon-claws that he had to use had  never learned to write and were not built for writing anyway. As a result he never got  nearly to the end before the tide came in and washed away all the writing except the bits  he had already trodden on or accidentaly swished out with his tail. And all that anyone  had seen would be something like this - the dots are for the bits he had smudged 
out I WNET TO SL EE . . . RGOS AGRONS I MEAN DRANGONS 
 
 CAVE CAUSE IT-WAS DEAD AND AWING SO HAR . . . WOKE UP AND COU . . .  GET OFFF MI ARM OH BOTHER . . . 
It was, however, clear to everyone that Eustace's character had been rather improved by  becoming a dragon. He was anxious to help. He flew over the whole island and found it  was all mountainous and inhabited only by wild goats and droves of wild swine. Of these  he brought back many carcasses as provisions for the ship. He was a very humane killer  too, for he could dispatch a beast with one blow of his tail so that it didn't know (and  presumably still doesn't know) it had been killed. He ate a few himself, of course, but  always alone, for now that he was a dragon he liked his food raw but he could never bear  to let others see him at his messy meals. And one day, flying slowly and wearily but in  great triumph, he bore back to camp a great tall pine tree which he had torn up by the  roots in a distant valley and which could be made into a capital mast. And in the evening  if it turned chilly, as it sometimes did after the heavy rains, he was a comfort to everyone,  for the whole party would come and sit with their backs against his hot sides and get well  warmed and dried; and one puff of his fiery breath would light the most obstinate fire.  Sometimes he would take a select party for a fly on his back, so that they could see  wheeling below them the green slopes, the rocky heights, the narrow pit-like valleys and  far out over the sea to the eastward a spot of darker blue on the blue horizon which might  be land. 
The pleasure (quite new to him) of being liked and, still more, of liking other people, was  what kept Eustace from despair. For it was very dreary being a dragon. He shuddered  whenever he caught sight of his own reflection as he flew over a mountain lake. He hated  the huge batlike wings, the saw-edged ridge on his back, and the cruel, curved claws. He  was almost afraid to be alone with himself and yet he was ashamed to be with the others.  On the evenings when he was not being used as a hot-water bottle he would slink away  from the camp and lie curled up like a snake between the wood and the water. On such  occasions, greatly to his surprise, Reepicheep was his most constant comforter. The noble  Mouse would creep away from the merry circle at the camp fire and sit down by the  dragon's head, well to the windward to be out of the way of his smoky breath. There he  would explain that what had happened to Eustace was a striking illustration of the turn of  Fortune's wheel, and that if he had Eustace at his own house in Narnia (it was really a  hole not a house and the dragon's head, let alone his body, would not have fitted in) he  could show him more than a hundred examples of emperors, kings, dukes, knights, poets,  lovers, astronomers, philosophers, and magicians, who had fallen from prosperity into the  most distressing circumstances, and of whom many had recovered and lived happily ever  afterwards. It did not, perhaps, seem so very comforting at the time, but it was kindly  meant and Eustace never forgot it. 
But of course what hung over everyone like a cloud was the problem of what to do with  their dragon when they were ready to sail. They tried not to talk of it when he was there,  but he couldn't help overhearing things like, "Would he fit all along one side of the deck?  And we'd have to shift all the stores to the other side down below so as to balance," or,  "Would towing him be any good?" or "Would he be able to keep up by flying?" and  (most often of all), "But how are we to feed him?" And poor Eustace realized more and 
 
 more that since the first day he came on board he had been an unmitigated nuisance and  that he was now a greater nuisance still. And this ate into his mind, just as that bracelet  ate into his foreleg. He knew that it only made it worse to tear at it with his great teeth,  but he couldn't help tearing now and then, especially on hot nights. 
About six days after they had landed on Dragon Island, Edmund happened to wake up  very early one morning. It was just getting grey so that you could see the tree-trunks if  they were between you and the bay but not in the other direction. As he woke he thought  he heard something moving, so he raised himself on one elbow and looked about him:  and presently he thought he saw a dark figure moving on the seaward side of the wood.  The idea that at once occurred to his mind was, "Are we so sure there are no natives on  this island after all?" Then he thought it was Caspian - it was about the right size - but he  knew that Caspian had been sleeping next to him and could see that he hadn't moved.  Edmund made sure that his sword was in its place and then rose to investigate. 
He came down softly to the edge of the wood and the dark figure was still there. He saw  now that it was too small for Caspian and too big for Lucy. It did not run away. Edmund  drew his sword and was about to challenge the stranger when the stranger said in a low  voice, "Is that you, Edmund?" 
"Yes. Who are you?" said he. 
"Don't you know me?" said the other. "It's me Eustace." 
"By jove," said Edmund, "so it is. My dear chap -" 
"Hush," said Eustace and lurched as if he were going to fall. 
"Hello!" said Edmund, steadying him. "What's up? Are you ill?" 
Eustace was silent for so long that Edmund thought he was fainting; but at last he said,  "It's been ghastly. You don't know . . . but it's all right now. Could we go and talk  somewhere? I don't want to meet the others just yet." 
"Yes, rather, anywhere you like," said Edmund. "We can go and sit on the rocks over  there. I say, I am glad to see you - er - looking yourself again. You must have had a pretty  beastly time." 
They went to the rocks and sat down looking out across the bay while the sky got paler  and paler and the stars disappeared except for one very bright one low down and near the  horizon. 
"I won't tell you how I became a - a dragon till I can tell the others and get it all over,"  said Eustace. "By the way, I didn't even know it was a dragon till I heard you all using the  word when I turned up here the other morning. I want to tell you how I stopped being  one." 
 
  
"Fire ahead," said Edmund. 
"Well, last night I was more miserable than ever. And that beastly arm-ring was hurting  like anything-" 
"Is that all right now?" 
Eustace laughed - a different laugh from any Edmund had heard him give before - and  slipped the bracelet easily off his arm. "There it is," he said, "and anyone who likes can  have it as far as I'm concerned. Well, as I say, I was lying awake and wondering what on  earth would become of me. And then - but, mind you, it may have been all a dream. I  don't know." 
"Go on," said Edmund, with considerable patience. 
"Well, anyway, I looked up and saw the very last thing I expected: a huge lion coming  slowly towards me. And one queer thing was that there was no moon last night, but there  was moonlight where the lion was. So it came nearer and nearer. I was terribly afraid of  it. You may think that, being a dragon, I could have knocked any lion out easily enough.  But it wasn't that kind of fear. I wasn't afraid of it eating me, I was just afraid of it - if you  can understand. Well, it came close up to me and looked straight into my eyes. And I shut  my eyes tight. But that wasn't any good because it told me to follow it." 
"You mean it spoke?" 
"I don't know. Now that you mention it, I don't think it did. But it told me all the same.  And I knew I'd have to do what it told me, so I got up and followed it. And it led me a  long way into the mountains. And there was always this moonlight over and round the  lion wherever we went. So at last we came to the top of a mountain I'd never seen before  and on the top of this mountain there was a garden - trees and fruit and everything. In the  middle of it there was a well. 
"I knew it was a well because you could see the water bubbling up from the bottom of it:  but it was a lot bigger than most wells - like a very big, round bath with marble steps  going down into it. The water was as clear as anything and I thought if I could get in  there and bathe it would ease the pain in my leg. But the lion told me I must undress first.  Mind you, I don't know if he said any words out loud or not. 
"I was just going to say that I couldn't undress because I hadn't any clothes on when I  suddenly thought that dragons are snaky sort of things and snakes can cast their skins.  Oh, of course, thought I, that's what the lion means. So I started scratching myself and  my scales began coming off all over the place. And then I scratched a little deeper and,  instead of just scales coming off here and there, my whole skin started peeling off  beautifully, like it does after an illness, or as if I was a banana. In a minute or two I just 
 
 stepped out of it. I could see it lying there beside me, looking rather nasty. It was a most  lovely feeling. So I started to go down into the well for my bathe. 
"But just as I was going to put my feet into the water I looked down and saw that they  were all hard and rough and wrinkled and scaly just as they had been before. Oh, that's all  right, said I, it only means I had another smaller suit on underneath the first one, and I'll  have to get out of it too. So 1 scratched and tore again and this underskin peeled off  beautifully and out I stepped and left it lying beside the other one and went down to the  well for my bathe. 
"Well, exactly the same thing happened again. And I thought to myself, oh dear, how  ever many skins have I got to take off? For I was longing to bathe my leg. So I scratched  away for the third time and got off a third skin, just like the two others, and stepped out  of it. But as soon as I looked at myself in the water I knew it had been no good. 
"Then the lion said - but I don't know if it spoke - "You will have to let me undress you."  I was afraid of his claws, I can tell you, but I was pretty nearly desperate now. So I just  lay flat down on my back to let him do it. 
"The very first tear he made was so deep that I thought it had gone right into my heart.  And when he began pulling the skin off, it hurt worse than anything I've ever felt. The  only thing that made me able to bear it was just the pleasure of feeling the stuff peel off.  You know - if you've ever picked the scab off a sore place. It hurts like billy-oh but it is  such fun to see it coming away." 
"I know exactly what you mean," said Edmund. 
"Well, he peeled the beastly stuff right off - just as I thought I'd done it myself the other  three times, only they hadn't hurt - and there it was lying on the grass: only ever so much  thicker, and darker, and more knobbly-looking than the others had been. And there was I  as smooth and soft as a peeled switch and smaller than I had been. Then he caught hold  of me - I didn't like that much for I was very tender underneath now that I'd no skin on -  and threw me into the water. It smarted like anything but only for a moment. After that it  became perfectly delicious and as soon as I started swimming and splashing I found that  all the pain had gone from my arm. And then I saw why. I'd turned into a boy again.  You'd think me simply phoney if I told you how I felt about my own arms. I know  they've no muscle and are pretty mouldy compared with Caspian's, but I was so glad to  see them. 
"After a bit the lion took me out and dressed me -" 
"Dressed you. With his paws?" 
"Well, I don't exactly remember that bit. But he did somehow or other: in new clothes -  the same I've got on now, as a matter of fact. And then suddenly I was back here. Which  is what makes me think it must have been a dream." 
 
  
"No. It wasn't a dream," said Edmund. 
"Why not?" 
"Well, there are the clothes, for one thing. And you have been - well, un-dragoned, for  another." 
"What do you think it was, then?" asked Eustace. 
"I think you've seen Aslan," said Edmund. 
"Aslan!" said Eustace. "I've heard that name mentioned several times since we joined the  Dawn Treader. And I felt - I don't know what - I hated it. But I was hating everything  then. And by the way, I'd like to apologize. I'm afraid I've been pretty beastly." 
"That's all right," said Edmund. "Between ourselves, you haven't been as bad as I was on  my first trip to Narnia. You were only an ass, but I was a traitor." 
"Well, don't tell me about it, then," said Eustace. "But who is Aslan? Do you know him?" 
"Well - he knows me," said Edmund. "He is the great Lion, the son of the Emperor- beyond-the-Sea, who saved me and saved Narnia. We've all seen him. Lucy sees him  most often. And it may be Aslan's country we are sailing to." 
Neither said anything for a while. The last bright star had vanished and though they could  not see the sunrise because of the mountains on their right, they knew it was going on  because the sky above them and the bay before them turned the colour of roses. Then  some bird of the parrot kind screamed in the wood behind them, they heard movements  among the trees, and finally a blast on Caspian's horn. The camp was astir. 
Great was the rejoicing when Edmund and the restored Eustace walked into the breakfast  circle round the camp fire. And now of course everyone heard the earlier part of his story.  People wondered whether the other dragon had killed the Lord Octesian several years ago  or whether Octesian himself had been the old dragon. The jewels with which Eustace had  crammed his pockets in the cave had disappeared along with the clothes he had then been  wearing: but no one, least of all Eustace himself, felt any desire to go back to that valley  for more treasure. 
In a few days now the Dawn Treader, remasted, re-painted, and well stored, was ready to  sail. Before they embarked Caspian caused to be cut on a smooth cliff facing the bay the  words: 
Two narrow escapes 
 
 DRAGON ISLAND DISCOVERED BY CASPIAN X, KING OF NARNIA, ETC. IN  THE FOURTH YEAR OF HIS REIGN. HERE, AS WE SUPPOSE, THE LORD  OCTESIAN HAD HIS DEATH 
It would be nice, and fairly true, to say that "from that time forth Eustace was a different  boy". To be strictly accurate, he began to be a different boy. He had relapses. There were  still many days when he could be very tiresome. But most of those I shall not notice. The  cure had begun. 
The Lord Octesian's arm ring had a curious fate. Eustace did not want it and offered it to  Caspian and Caspian offered it to Lucy. She did not care about having it. "Very well,  then, catch as catch can," said Caspian and flung it up in the air. This was when they were  all standing looking at the inscription. Up went the ring, flashing in the sunlight, and  caught, and hung, as neatly as a well-thrown quoit, on a little projection on the rock. No  one could climb up to get it from below and no one could climb down to get it from  above. And there, for all I know, it is hanging still and may hang till that world ends. 
 
 
CHAPTER EIGHT 
TWO NARROW ESCAPES 
EVERYONE was cheerful as the Dawn Treader sailed from Dragon Island. They had fair  winds as soon as they were out of the bay and came early next morning to the unknown  land which some of them had seen when flying over the mountains while Eustace was  still a dragon. It was a low green island inhabited by nothing but rabbits and a few goats,  but from the ruins of stone huts, and from blackened places where fires had been, they  judged that it had been peopled not long before. There were also some bones and broken  weapons. 
"Pirates' work," said Caspian. 
"Or the dragon's," said Edmund. 
The only other thing they found there was a little skin boat, or coracle, on the sands. It  was made of hide stretched over a wicker framework. It was a tiny boat, barely four feet  long, and the paddle which still lay in it was in proportion. They thought that either it had  been made for a child or else that the people of that country had been Dwarfs.  Reepicheep decided to keep it, as it was just the right size for him; so it was taken on  board. They called that land Burnt Island, and sailed away before noon. 
For some five days they ran before a south-south-east wind, out of sight of all lands and  seeing neither fish nor gull. Then they had a day when it rained hard till the afternoon.  Eustace lost two games of chess to Reepicheep and began to get like his old and 
 
 disagreeable self again, and Edmund said he wished they could have gone to America  with Susan. Then Lucy looked out of the stern windows and said: 
"Hello! I do believe it's stopping. And what's that?" 
They all tumbled up to the poop at this and found that the rain had stopped and that  Drinian, who was on watch, was also staring hard at something astern. Or rather, at  several things. They looked a little like smooth rounded rocks, a whole line of them with  intervals of about forty feet in between. 
"But they can't be rocks," Drinian was saying, "because they weren't there five minutes  ago." 
"And one's just disappeared," said Lucy. 
"Yes, and there's another one coming up," said Edmund. 
"And nearer," said Eustace. 
"Hang it!" said Caspian. "The whole thing is moving this way." 
"And moving a great deal quicker than we can sail, Sire," said Drinian. "It'll be up with  us in a minute." 
They all held their breath, for it is not at all nice to be pursued by an unknown something  either on land or sea. But what it turned out to be was far worse than anyone had  suspected. Suddenly, only about the length of a cricket pitch from their port side, an  appalling head reared itself out of the sea. It was all greens and vermilions with purple  blotches - except where shell fish clung to it - and shaped rather like a horse's, though  without ears. It had enormous eyes, eyes made for staring through the dark depths of the  ocean, and a gaping mouth filled with double rows of sharp fish-like teeth. It came up on  what they first took to be a huge neck, but as more and more of it emerged everyone  knew that this was not its neck but its body and that at last they were seeing what so  many people have foolishly wanted to see - the great Sea Serpent. The folds of its  gigantic tail could be seen far away, rising at intervals from the surface. And now its head  was towering up higher than the mast. 
Every man rushed to his weapon, but there was nothing to be done, the monster was out  of reach. "Shoot! Shoot!" cried the Master Bowman, and several obeyed, but the arrows  glanced off the Sea Serpent's hide as if it was ironplated. Then, for a dreadful minute,  everyone was still, staring up at its eyes and mouth and wondering where it would  pounce. 
But it didn't pounce. It shot its head forward across the ship on a level with the yard of  the mast. Now its head was just beside the fighting top. Still it stretched and stretched till  its head was over the starboard bulwark. Then down it began to come - not on to the 
 
 crowded deck but into the water, so that the whole ship was under an arch of serpent.  And almost at once that arch began to get smaller: indeed on the starboard the Sea  Serpent was now almost touching the Dawn Treader's side. 
Eustace (who had really been trying very hard to behave well, till the rain and the chess  put him back) now did the first brave thing he had ever done. He was wearing a sword  that Caspian had lent him. As soon as the serpent's body was near enough on the  starboard side he jumped on to the bulwark and began hacking at it with all his might. It  is true that he accomplished nothing beyond breaking Caspian's second-best sword into  bits, but it was a fine thing for a beginner to have done. 
Others would have joined him if at that moment Reepicheep had not called out, "Don't  fight! Push!" It was so unusual for the Mouse to advise anyone not to fight that, even in  that terrible moment, every eye turned to him. And when he jumped up on to the  bulwark, forward of the snake, and set his little furry back against its huge scaly, slimy  back, and began pushing as hard as he could, quite a number of people saw what he  meant and rushed to both sides of the ship to do the same. And when, a moment later, the  Sea Serpent's head appeared again, this time on the port side, and this time with its back  to them, then everyone understood. 
The brute had made a loop of itself round the Dawn Treader and was beginning to draw  the loop tight. When it got quite tight - snap! - there would be floating matchwood where  the ship had been and it could pick them out of the water one by one. Their only chance  was to push the loop backward till it slid over the stern; or else (to put the same thing  another way) to push the ship forward out of the loop. 
Reepicheep alone had, of course, no more chance of doing this than of lifting up a  cathedral, but he had nearly killed himself with trying before others shoved him aside.  Very soon the whole ship's company except Lucy and the Mouse (which was fainting)  was in two long lines along the two bulwarks, each man's chest to the back of the man in  front, so that the weight of the whole line was in the last man, pushing for their lives. For  a few sickening seconds (which seemed like hours) nothing appeared to happen. Joints  cracked, sweat dropped, breath came in grunts and gasps. Then they felt that the ship was  moving. They saw that the snake-loop was further from the mast than it had been. But  they also saw that it was smaller. And now the real danger was at hand. Could they get it  over the poop, or was it already too tight? Yes. It would just fit. It was resting on the  poop rails. A dozen or more sprang up on the poop. This was far better. The Sea Serpent's  body was so low now that they could make a line across the poop and push side by side.  Hope rose high till everyone remembered the high carved stern, the dragon tail, of the  Dawn Treader. It would be quite impossible to get the brute over that. 
"An axe," cried Caspian hoarsely, "and still shove." Lucy, who knew where everything  was, heard him where she was standing on the main deck staring up at the poop. In a few  seconds she had been below, got the axe, and was rushing up the ladder to the poop. But  just as she reached the top there came a great crashing noise like a tree coming down and  the ship rocked and darted forward. For at that very moment, whether because the Sea 
 
 Serpent was being pushed so hard, or because it foolishly decided to draw the noose tight,  the whole of the carved stern broke off and the ship was free. 
The others were too exhausted to see what Lucy saw. There, a few yards behind them, the  loop of Sea Serpent's body got rapidly smaller and disappeared into a splash. Lucy  always said (but of course she was very excited at the moment, and it may have been only  imagination) that she saw a look of idiotic satisfaction on the creature's face. What is  certain is that it was a very stupid animal, for instead of pursuing the ship it turned its  head round and began nosing all along its own body as if it expected to find the wreckage  of the Dawn Treader there. But the Dawn Treader was already well away, running before  a fresh breeze, and the men lay and sat panting and groaning all about the deck, till  presently they were able to talk about it, and then to laugh about it. And when some rum  had been served out they even raised a cheer; and everyone praised the valour of Eustace  (though it hadn't done any good) and of Reepicheep. 
After this they sailed for three days more and saw nothing but sea and sky. On the fourth  day the wind changed to the north and the seas began to rise; by the afternoon it had  nearly become a gale. But at the same time they sighted land on their port bow. 
  
"By your leave, Sire," said Drinian, "we will try to get under the lee of that country by  rowing and lie in harbour, maybe till this is over." Caspian agreed, but a long row against  the gale did not bring them to the land before evening. By the last light of that day they  steered into a natural harbour and anchored, but no one went ashore that night. In the  morning they found themselves in the green bay of a rugged, lonely-looking country  which sloped up to a rocky summit. From the windy north beyond that summit clouds  came streaming rapidly. They lowered the boat and loaded 
her with any of the water casks which were now empty. 
"Which stream shall we water at, Drinian?" said Caspian as he took his seat in the stern- sheets of the boat. "There seem to be two coming down into the bay." 
"It makes little odds, Sire," said Drinian. "But I think it's a shorter pull to that on the  starboard-the eastern one." 
"Here comes the rain," said Lucy. 
"I should think it does!" said Edmund, for it was already pelting hard. "I say, let's go to  the other stream. There are trees there and we'll have some shelter." 
"Yes, let's," said Eustace. "No point in getting wetter than we need." 
But all the time Drinian was steadily steering to the starboard, like tiresome people in  cars who continue at forty miles an hour while you are explaining to them that they are  on the wrong road. 
 
  
"They're right, Drinian," said Caspian. "Why don't you bring her head round and make  for the western stream?" 
"As your Majesty pleases," said Drinian a little shortly. He had had an anxious day with  the weather yesterday, and he didn't like advice from landsmen. But he altered course;  and it turned out afterwards that it was a good thing he did. 
By the time they had finished watering, the rain was over and Caspian, with Eustace, the  Pevensies, and Reepicheep, decided to walk up to the top of the hill and see what could  be seen. It was a stiffish climb through coarse grass and heather and they saw neither man  nor beast, except seagulls. When they reached the top they saw that it was a very small  island, not more than twenty acres; and from this height the sea looked larger and more  desolate than it did from the deck, or even the fighting top, of the Dawn Treader. 
"Crazy, you know," said Eustace to Lucy in a low voice, looking at the eastern horizon.  "Sailing on and on into that with no idea what we may get to." But he only said it out of  habit, not really nastily as he would have done at one time. 
It was too cold to stay long on the ridge for the wind still blew freshly from the north. 
"Don't let's go back the same way," said Lucy as they turned; "let's go along a bit and  come down by the other stream, the one Drinian wanted to go to." 
Everyone agreed to this and after about fifteen minutes they were at the source of the  second river. It was a more interesting place than they had expected; a deep little  mountain lake, surrounded by cliffs except for a narrow channel on the seaward side out  of which the water flowed. Here at last they were out of the wind, and all sat down in the  heather above the cliff for a rest. 
All sat down, but one (it was Edmund) jumped up again very quickly. 
"They go in for sharp stones on this island," he said, groping about in the heather. "Where  is the wretched thing? . . . Ah, now I've got it . . . Hullo! It wasn't a stone at all, it's a  sword-hilt. No, by jove, it's a whole sword; what the rust has left of it. It must have lain  here for ages." 
"Narnian, too, by the look of it," said Caspian, as they all crowded round. 
"I'm sitting on something too," said Lucy. "Something hard." It turned out to be the  remains of a mail-shirt. By this time everyone was on hands and knees, feeling in the  thick heather in every direction. Their search revealed, one by one, a helmet, a dagger,  and a few coins; not Calormen crescents but genuine Narnian "Lions" and "Trees" such  as you might see any day in the market-place of Beaversdam or Beruna. 
"Looks as if this might be all that's left of one of our seven lords," said Edmund. 
 
  
"Just what I was thinking," said Caspian. "I wonder which it was. There's nothing on the  dagger to show. And I wonder how he died." 
"And how we are to avenge him," added Reepicheep. 
Edmund, the only one of the party who had read several detective stories, had meanwhile  been thinking. 
"Look here," he said, "there's something very fishy about this. He can't have been killed  in a fight." 
"Why not?" asked Caspian. 
"No bones," said Edmund. "An enemy might take the armour and leave the body. But  who ever heard of a chap who'd won a fight carrying away the body and leaving the  armour?" 
"Perhaps he was killed by a wild animal," Lucy suggested. 
"It'd be a clever animal," said Edmund, "that would take a man's mail shirt off." 
"Perhaps a dragon?" said Caspian. 
"Nothing doing," said Eustace. "A dragon couldn't do it. I ought to know." 
"Well, let's get away from the place, anyway," said Lucy. She had not felt like sitting  down again since Edmund had raised the question of bones. 
"If you like," said Caspian, getting up. "I don't think any of this stuff is worth taking  away." 
They came down and round to the little opening where the stream came out of the lake,  and stood looking at the deep water within the circle of cliffs. If it had been a hot day, no  doubt some would have been tempted to bathe and everyone would have had a drink.  Indeed, even as it was, Eustace was on the very point of stooping down and scooping up  some water in his hands when Reepicheep and Lucy both at the same moment cried,  "Look," so he forgot about his drink and looked. 
The bottom of the pool was made of large greyish-blue stones and the water was  perfectly clear, and on the bottom lay a life-size figure of a man, made apparently of  gold. It lay face downwards with its arms stretched out above its head. And it so  happened that as they looked at it, the clouds parted and the sun shone out. The golden  shape was lit up from end to end. Lucy thought it was the most beautiful statue she had  ever seen. 
 
 "Well!" whistled Caspian. "That was worth coming to see! I wonder, can we get it out?" 
"We can dive for it, Sire," said Reepicheep. 
"No good at all," said Edmund. "At least, if it's really gold - solid gold - it'll be far too  heavy to bring up. And that pool's twelve or fifteen feet deep if it's an inch. Half a  moment, though. It's a good thing I've brought a hunting spear with me. Let's see what  the depth is like. Hold on to my hand, Caspian, while I lean out over the water a bit."  Caspian took his hand and Edmund, leaning forward, began to lower his spear into the  water. 
Before it was half-way in Lucy said, "I don't believe the statue is gold at all. It's only the  light. Your spear looks just the same colour." 
"What's wrong?" asked several voices at once; for Edmund had suddenly let go of the  spear. 
"I couldn't hold it," gasped Edmund, "it seemed so heavy." 
"And there it is on the bottom now," said Caspian, "and Lucy is right. It looks just the  same colour as the statue." 
But Edmund, who appeared to be having some trouble with his boots - at least he was  bending down and looking at them - straightened himself all at once and shouted out in  the sharp voice which people hardly ever disobey: 
"Get back! Back from the water. All of you. At once!!" 
They all did and stared at him. 
"Look," said Edmund, "look at the toes of my boots." 
"They look a bit yellow," began Eustace. 
"They're gold, solid gold," interrupted Edmund. "Look at them. Feel them. The leather's  pulled away from it already. And they're as heavy as lead." 
"By Aslan!" said Caspian. "You don't mean to say-?" 
"Yes, I do," said Edmund. "That water turns things into gold. It turned the spear into  gold, that's why it got so heavy. And it was just lapping against my feet (it's a good thing  I wasn't barefoot) and it turned the toe-caps into gold. And that poor fellow on the bottom  - well, you see." 
"So it isn't a statue at all," said Lucy in a low voice. 
 
 "No. The whole thing is plain now. He was here on a hot day. He undressed on top of the  cliff - where we were sitting. The clothes have rotted away or been taken by birds to line  nests with; the armour's still there. Then he dived and -" 
"Don't," said Lucy. "What a horrible thing." 
"And what a narrow shave we've had," said Edmund. 
"Narrow indeed," said Reepicheep. "Anyone's finger, anyone's foot, anyone's whisker, or  anyone's tail, might have slipped into the water at any moment." 
"All the same," said Caspian, "we may as well test it." He stooped down and wrenched up  a spray of heather. Then, very cautiously, he knelt beside the pool and dipped it in. It was  heather that he dipped; what he drew out was a perfect model of heather made of the  purest gold, heavy and soft as lead. 
"The King who owned this island," said Caspian slowly, and his face flushed as he spoke,  "would soon be the richest of all the Kings of the world. I claim this land for ever as a  Narnian possession. It shall be called Goldwater Island. And I bind all of you to secrecy.  No one must know of this. Not even Drinian - on pain of death, do you hear?" 
"Who are you talking to?" said Edmund. "I'm no subject of yours. If anything it's the  other way round. I am one of the four ancient sovereigns of Narnia and you are under  allegiance to the High King my brother." 
"So it has come to that, King Edmund, has it?" said Caspian, laying his hand on his  sword-hilt. 
"Oh, stop it, both of you," said Lucy. "That's the worst of doing anything with boys.  You're all such swaggering, bullying idiots - oooh! -" Her voice died away into a gasp.  And everyone else saw what she had seen. 
Across the grey hillside above them - grey, for the heather was not yet in bloom - without  noise, and without looking at them, and shining as if he were in bright sunlight though the  sun had in fact gone in, passed with slow pace the hugest lion that human eyes have ever  seen. In describing the scene Lucy said afterwards, "He was the size of an elephant,"  though at another time she only said, "The size of a cart-horse." But it was not the size  that mattered. Nobody dared to ask what it was. They knew it was Aslan. 
And nobody ever saw how or where he went. They looked at one another like people  waking from sleep. 
"What were we talking about?" said Caspian. "Have I been making rather an ass of  myself?" 
 
 "Sire," said Reepicheep, "this is a place with a curse on it. Let us get back on board at  once. And if I might have the honour of naming this island, I should call it Deathwater." 
"That strikes me as a very good name, Reep," said Caspian, "though now that I come to  think of it, I don't know why. But the weather seems to be settling and I dare say Drinian  would like to be off. What a lot we shall have to tell him." 
But in fact they had not much to tell for the memory of the last hour had all become  confused. 
"Their Majesties all seemed a bit bewitched when they came aboard," said Drinian to  Rhince some hours later when the Dawn Treader was once more under sail and  Deathwater Island already below the horizon. "Something happened to them in that place.  The only thing I could get clear was that they think they've found the body of one of  these lords we're looking for." 
"You don't say so, Captain," answered Rhince. "Well, that's three. Only four more. At  this rate we might be home soon after the New Year. And a good thing too. My baccy's  running a bit low. Good night, Sir." 
 
 
CHAPTER NINE 
THE ISLAND OF THE VOICES 
AND now the winds which had so long been from the north-west began to blow from the  west itself and every morning when the sun rose out of the sea the curved prow of the  Dawn Treader stood up right across the middle of the sun. Some thought that the sun  looked larger than it looked from Narnia, but others disagreed. And they sailed and sailed  before a gentle yet steady breeze and saw neither fish nor gull- nor ship nor shore. And  stores began to get low again, and it crept into their hearts that perhaps they might have  come to a sea which went on for ever. But when the very last day on which they thought  they could risk continuing their eastward voyage dawned, it showed, right ahead between  them and the sunrise, a low land lying like a cloud. 
They made harbour in a wide bay about the middle of the afternoon and landed. It was a  very different country from any they had yet seen. For when they had crossed the sandy  beach they found all silent and empty as if it were an uninhabited land, but before them  there were level lawns in which the grass was as smooth and short as it used to be in the  grounds of a great English house where ten gardeners were kept. The trees, of which  there were many, all stood well apart from one another, and there were no broken  branches and no leaves lying on the ground. Pigeons sometimes cooed but there was no  other noise. 
 
 Presently they came to a long, straight, sanded path with not a weed growing on it and  trees on either hand. Far off at the other end of this avenue they now caught sight of a  house - very long and grey and quiet-looking in the afternoon sun. 
Almost as soon as they entered this path Lucy noticed that she had a little stone in her  shoe. In that unknown place it might have been wiser for her to ask the others to wait  while she took it out. But she didn't; she just dropped quietly behind and sat down to take  off her shoe. Her lace had got into a knot. 
Before she had undone the knot the others were a fair distance ahead. By the time she had  got the stone out and was putting the shoe on again she could no longer hear them. But  almost at once she heard something else. It was not coming from the direction of the  house. 
What she heard was a thumping. It sounded as if dozens of strong workmen were hitting  the ground as hard as they could with great wooden mallets. And it was very quickly  coming nearer. She was already sitting with her back to a tree, and as the tree was not one  she could climb, there was really nothing to do but to sit dead still and press herself  against the tree and hope she wouldn't be seen. 
Thump, thump, thump . . . and whatever it was must be very close now for she could feel  the ground shaking. But she could see nothing. She thought the thing - or things must be  just behind her. But then there came a thump on the path right in front of her. She knew it  was on the path not only by the sound but because she saw the sand scatter as if it had  been struck a heavy blow. But she could see nothing that had struck it. Then all the  thumping noises drew together about twenty feet away from her and suddenly ceased.  Then came the Voice. 
It was really very dreadful because she could still see nobody at all. The whole of that  park-like country still looked as quiet and empty as it had looked when they first landed.  Nevertheless, only a few feet away from her, a voice spoke. And what it said was: 
"Mates, now's our chance." 
Instantly a whole chorus of other voices replied, "Hear him. Hear him. `Now 's our  chance', he said. Well done, Chief. You never said a truer word." 
"What I say," continued the first voice, "is, get down to the shore between them and their  boat, and let every mother's son look to his weapons. Catch 'em when they try to put to  sea." 
"Eh, that's the way," shouted all the other voices. "You never made a better plan, Chief.  Keep it up, Chief. You couldn't have a better plan than that." 
"Lively, then, mates, lively," said the first voice. "Off we go. 
 
 "Right again, Chief," said the others. "Couldn't have a better order. Just what we were  going to say ourselves. Off we go." 
Immediately the thumping began again - very loud at first but soon fainter and fainter, till  it died out in the direction of the sea. 
Lucy knew there was no time to sit puzzling as to what these invisible creatures might be.  As soon as the thumping noise had died away she got up and ran along the path after the  others as quickly as her legs would carry her. They must at all costs be warned. 
While this had been happening the others had reached the house. It was a low building -  only two stories high made of a beautiful mellow stone, many-windowed, and partially  covered with ivy. Everything was so still that Eustace said, "I think it's empty," but  Caspian silently pointed to the column of smoke which rose from one chimney. 
They found a wide gateway open and passed through it into a paved courtyard. And it  was here that they had their first indication that there was something odd about this  island. In the middle of the courtyard stood a pump, and beneath the pump a bucket.  There was nothing odd about that. But the pump handle was moving up and down,  though there seemed to be no one moving it. 
"There's some magic at work here," said Caspian. 
"Machinery!" said Eustace. "I do believe we've come to a civilized country at last." 
At that moment Lucy, hot and breathless, rushed into the courtyard behind them. In a low  voice she tried to make them understand what she had overheard. And when they had  partly understood it even the bravest of them did not look very happy. 
"Invisible enemies," muttered Caspian. "And cutting us off from the boat. This is an ugly  furrow to plough." 
"You've no idea what sort of creatures they are, Lu?" asked Edmund. 
"How can I, Ed, when I couldn't see them?" 
"Did they sound like humans from their footsteps?" 
"I didn't hear any noise of feet - only voices and this frightful thudding and thumping -  like a mallet." 
"I wonder," said Reepicheep, "do they become visible when you drive a sword into  them?" 
"It looks as if we shall find out," said Caspian. "But let's get out of this gateway. There's  one of these gentry at that pump listening to all we say." 
 
  
They came out and went back on to the path where the trees might possibly make them  less conspicuous. "Not that it's any good really," said Eustace, "trying to hide from people  you can't see. They may be all round us." 
"Now, Drinian," said Caspian. "How would it be if we gave up the boat for lost, went  down to another part of the bay, and signalled to the Dawn Treader to stand in and take  us aboard?" 
"Not depth for her, Sire," said Drinian. 
"We could swim," said Lucy. 
"Your Majesties all," said Reepicheep, "hear me. It is folly to think of avoiding an  invisible enemy by any amount of creeping and skulking. If these creatures mean to bring  us to battle, be sure they will succeed. And whatever comes of it I'd sooner meet them  face to face than be caught by the tail." 
"I really think Reep is in the right this time," said Edmund. 
"Surely," said Lucy, "if Rhince and the others on the Dawn Treader see us fighting on the  shore they'll be able to do something." 
"But they won't see us fighting if they can't see any enemy," said Eustace miserably.  "They'll think we're just swinging our swords in the air for fun." 
There was an uncomfortable pause. 
"Well," said Caspian at last, "let's get on with it. We must go and face them. Shake hands  all round - arrow on the string, Lucy - swords out, everyone else - and now for it. Perhaps  they'll parley." 
It was strange to see the lawns and the great trees looking so peaceful as they marched  back to the beach. And when they arrived there, and saw the boat lying where they had  left her, and the smooth sand with no one to be seen on it, more than one doubted whether  Lucy had not merely imagined all she had told them. But before they reached the sand, a  voice spoke out of the air. 
"No further, masters, no further now," it said. "We've got to talk with you first. There's  fifty of us and more here with weapons in our fists." 
"Hear him, hear him," came the chorus. "That's our Chief. You can depend on what he  says. He's telling you the truth, he is." 
"I do not see these fifty warriors," observed Reepicheep. 
 
 "That's right, that's right," said the Chief Voice. "You don't see us. And why not?  Because we're invisible." 
"Keep it up, Chief, keep it up," said the Other Voices. "You're talking like a book. They  couldn't ask for a better answer than that." 
"Be quiet, Reep," said Caspian, and then added in a louder voice, "You invisible people,  what do you want with us? And what have we done to earn your enmity?" 
"We want something that little girl can do for us," said the Chief Voice. (The others  explained that this was just what they would have said themselves.) 
"Little girl!" said Reepicheep. "The lady is a queen." 
"We don't know about queens," said the Chief Voice. 
("No more we do, no more we do," chimed in the others.) "But we want something she  can do." 
"What is it?" said Lucy. 
"And if it is anything against her Majesty's honour or safety," added Reepicheep, "you  will wonder to see how many we can kill before we die." 
"Well," said the Chief Voice. "It's a long story. Suppose we all sit down?" , 
The proposal was warmly approved by the other voices but the Narnians remained  standing. 
"Well," said the Chief Voice. "It's like this. This island has been the property of a great  magician time out of mind. And we all are - or perhaps in a manner of speaking, I might  say, we were - his servants. Well, to cut a long story short, this magician that I was  speaking about, he told us to do something we didn't like. And why not? Because we  didn't want to. Well, then, this same magician he fell into a great rage; for I ought to tell  you he owned the island and he wasn't used to being crossed. He was terribly downright,  you know. But let me see, where am I? Oh yes, this magician then, he goes upstairs (for  you must know he kept all his magic things up there and we all lived down below), I say  he goes upstairs and puts a spell on us. An uglifying spell. If you saw us now, which in  my opinion you may thank your stars you can't, you wouldn't believe what we looked like  before we were uglified. You wouldn't really. So there we all were so ugly we couldn't  bear to look at one another. So then what did we do? Well, I'll tell you what we did. We  waited till we thought this same magician would be asleep in the afternoon and we creep  upstairs and go to his magic book, as bold as brass, to see if we can do anything about  this uglification. But we were all of a sweat and a tremble, so I won't deceive you. But,  believe me or believe me not, I do assure you that we couldn't find any thing in the way  of a spell for taking off the ugliness. And what with time getting on and being afraid that 
 
 the old gentleman might wake up any minute - I was all of a muck sweat, so I won't  deceive you - well, to cut a long story short, whether we did right or whether we did  wrong, in the end we see a spell for making people invisible. And we thought we'd rather  be invisible than go on being as ugly as all that. And why? Because we'd like it better. So  my little girl, who's just about your little girl's age, and a sweet child she was before she  was uglified, though now - but least said soonest mended - I say, my little girl she says  the spell, for it's got to be a little girl or else the magician himself, if you see my meaning,  for otherwise it won't work. And why not? Because nothing happens. So my Clipsie says  the spell, for I ought to have told you she reads beautifully, and there we all were as  invisible as you could wish to see. And I do assure you it was a relief not to see one  another's faces. At first, anyway. But the long and the short of it is we're mortal tired of  being invisible. And there's another thing. We never reckoned on this magician (the one I  was telling you about before) going invisible too. But we haven't ever seen him since. So  we don't know if he's dead, or gone .away, or whether he's just sitting upstairs being  invisible, and perhaps coming down and being invisible there. And, believe me, it's no  manner of use listening because he always did go about with his bare feet on, making no  more noise than a great big cat. And I'll tell all you gentlemen straight, it's getting more  than what our nerves can stand." 
Such was the Chief Voice's story, but very much shortened, because I have left out what  the Other Voices said. Actually he never got out more than six or seven words without  being interrupted by their agreements and encouragements, which drove the Narnians  nearly out of their minds with impatience. When it was over there was a very long  silence. 
"But," said Lucy at last, "what's all this got to do with us? I don't understand." 
"Why, bless me, if I haven't gone and left out the whole point," said the Chief Voice. 
"That you have, that you have," roared the Other Voices with great enthusiasm. "No one  couldn't have left it out cleaner and better. Keep it up, Chief, keep it up." 
"Well, I needn't go over the whole story again," began the Chief Voice. 
"No. Certainly not," said Caspian and Edmund. 
"Well, then, to put it in a nutshell," said the Chief Voice, "we've been waiting for ever so  long for a nice little girl from foreign parts, like it might be you, Missie - that would go  upstairs and go to the magic book and find the spell that takes off the invisibleness, and  say it. And we all swore that the first strangers as landed on this island (having a nice  little girl with them, I mean, for if they hadn't it'd be another matter) we wouldn't let them  go away alive unless they'd done the needful for us. And that's why, gentlemen, if your  little girl doesn't come up to scratch, it will be our painful duty to cut all your throats.  Merely in the way of business, as you might say, and no offence, I hope." 
 
 "I don't see all your weapons," said Reepicheep. "Are they invisible too?" The words  were scarcely out of his mouth before they heard a whizzing sound and next moment a  spear had stuck, quivering, in one of the trees behind them. 
"That's a spear, that is," said the Chief Voice. 
"That it is, Chief, that it is," said the others. "You couldn't have put it better." 
"And it came from my hand," the Chief Voice continued. "They get visible when they  leave us." 
"But why do you want me to do this?" asked Lucy. 
"Why can't one of your own people? Haven't you got any girls?" 
"We dursen't, we dursen't," said all the Voices. "We're not going upstairs again." 
"In other words," said Caspian, "you are asking this lady to face some danger which you  daren't ask your own sisters and daughters to face!" 
"That's right, that's right," said all the Voices cheerfully. "You couldn't have said it better.  Eh, you've had some education, you have. Anyone can see that." 
"Well, of all the outrageous - " began Edmund, but Lucy interrupted. 
"Would I have to go upstairs at night, or would it do in daylight?" 
"Oh, daylight, daylight, to be sure," said the Chief Voice. "Not at night. No one's asking  you to do that. Go upstairs in the dark? Ugh." 
"All right, then, I'll do it," said Lucy. "No," she said, turning to the others, "don't try to  stop me. Can't you see it's no use? There are dozens of them there. We can't fight them.  And the other way there is a chance." 
"But a magician!" said Caspian. 
"I know," said Lucy. "But he mayn't be as bad as they make out. Don't you get the idea  that these people are not very brave?" 
"They're certainly not very clever," said Eustace. 
"Look here, Lu," said Edmund. "We really can't let you do a thing like this. Ask Reep,  I'm sure he'll say just the same." 
"But it's to save my own life as well as yours," said Lucy. "I don't want to be cut to bits  with invisible swords any more than anyone else." 
 
  
"Her Majesty is in the right," said Reepicheep. "If we had any assurance of saving her by  battle, our duty would be very-plain. It appears to me that we have none. And the service  they ask of her is in no way contrary to her Majesty's honour, but a noble and heroical  act. If the Queen's heart moves her to risk the magician, I will not speak against it." 
As no one had ever known Reepicheep to be afraid of anything, he could say this without  feeling at all awkward. But the boys, who had all been afraid quite often, grew very red.  None the less, it was such obvious sense that they had to give in. Loud cheers broke from  the invisible people when their decision was announced, and the Chief Voice (warmly  supported by all the others) invited the Narnians to come to supper and spend the night.  Eustace didn't want to accept, but Lucy said, "I'm sure they're not treacherous. They're  not like that at all," and the others agreed. And so, accompanied by an enormous noise of  thumpings (which became louder when they reached the flagged and echoing courtyard)  they all went back to the house. 
 
 
CHAPTER TEN 
THE MAGICIAN'S BOOK 
THE invisible people feasted their guests royally. It was very funny to see the plates and  dishes coming to the table and not to see anyone carrying them. It would have been funny  even if they had moved along level with the floor, as you would expect things to do in  invisible hands. But they didn't. They progressed up the long dining-hall in a series of  bounds or jumps. At the highest point of each jump a dish would be about fifteen feet up  in the air; then it would come down and stop quite suddenly about three feet from the  floor. When the dish contained anything like soup or stew the result was rather disastrous. 
"I'm beginning to feel very inquisitive about these people," whispered Eustace to  Edmund. "Do you think they're human at all? More like huge grasshoppers or giant frogs,  I should say." 
"It does look like it," said Edmund. "But don't put the idea of the grasshoppers into  Lucy's head. She's not too keen on insects; especially big ones." 
The meal would have been pleasanter if it had not been so exceedingly messy, and also if  the conversation had not consisted entirely of agreements. The invisible people agreed  about everything. Indeed most of their remarks were the sort it would not be easy to  disagree with: "What I always say is, when a chap's hungry, he likes some victuals," or  "Getting dark now; always does at night," or even "Ah, you've come over the water.  Powerful wet stuff, ain't it?" And Lucy could not help looking at the dark yawning  entrance to the foot of the staircase - she could see it from where she sat - and wondering  what she would find when she went up those stairs next morning. But it was a good meal 
 
 otherwise, with mushroom soup and boiled chickens and hot boiled ham and  gooseberries, redcurrants, curds, cream, milk, and mead. The others liked the mead but  Eustace was sorry afterwards that he had drunk any. 
When Lucy woke up next morning it was like waking up on the day of an examination or  a day when you are going to the dentist. It was a lovely morning with bees buzzing in and  out of her open window and the lawn outside looking very like somewhere in England.  She got up and dressed and tried to talk and eat ordinarily at breakfast. Then, after being  instructed by the Chief Voice about what she was to do upstairs, she bid goodbye to the  others, said nothing, walked to the bottom of the stairs, and began going up them without  once looking back. 
It was quite light, that was one good thing. There was, indeed, a window straight ahead of  her at the top of the first flight. As long as she was 9n that flight she could hear the tick- tock-tick-tock of a grandfather clock in the hall below. Then she came to the landing and  had to turn to her left up the next flight; after that she couldn't hear the clock any more. 
Now she had come to the top of the stairs. Lucy looked and saw a long, wide passage  with a large window at the far end. Apparently the passage ran the whole length of the  house. It was carved and panelled and carpeted and very many doors opened off it on  each side. She stood still and couldn't hear the squeak of a mouse, or the buzzing of a fly,  or the swaying of a curtain, or anything - except the beating of her own heart. 
"The last doorway on the left," she said to herself. It did seem a bit hard that it should be  the last. To reach it she would have to walk past room after room. And in any room there  might be the magician - asleep, or awake, or invisible, or even dead. But it wouldn't do to  think about that. She set out on her journey. The carpet was so thick that her feet made no  noise. 
"There's nothing whatever to be afraid of yet," Lucy told herself. And certainly it was a  quiet, sunlit passage; perhaps a bit too quiet. It would have been nicer if there had not  been strange signs painted in scarlet on the doors twisty, complicated things which  obviously had a meaning and it mightn't be a very nice meaning either. It would have  been nicer still if there weren't those masks hanging on the wall. Not that they were  exactly ugly - or not so very ugly - but the empty eye-holes did look queer, and if you let  yourself you would soon start imagining that the masks were doing things as soon as your  back was turned to them. 
After about the sixth door she got her first real fright. For one second she felt almost  certain that a wicked little bearded face had popped out of the wall and made a grimace at  her. She forced herself to stop and look at it. And it was not a face at all. It was a little  mirror just the size and shape of her own face, with hair on the top of it and a beard  hanging down from it, so that when you looked in the mirror your own face fitted into the  hair and beard and it looked as if they belonged to you. "I just caught my own reflection  with the tail of my eye as I went past," said Lucy to herself. "That was all it was. It's quite 
 
 harmless." But she didn't like the look of her own face with that hair and beard, and went  on. (I don't know what the Bearded Glass was for because I am not a magician.) 
Before she reached the last door on the left, Lucy was beginning to wonder whether the  corridor had grown longer since she began her journey and whether this was part of the  magic of the house. But she got to it at last. And the door was open. 
It was a large room with three big windows and it was lined from floor to ceiling with  books; more books than Lucy had ever seen before, tiny little books, fat and dumpy  books, and books bigger than any church Bible you have ever seen, all bound in leather  and smelling old and learned and magical. But she knew from her instructions that she  need not bother about any of these. For the Book, the Magic Book, was lying on a  reading-desk in the very middle of the room. She saw she would have to read it standing  (and anyway there were no chairs) and also that she would have to stand with her back to  the door while she read it. So at once she turned to shut the door. 
It wouldn't shut. 
Some people may disagree with Lucy about this, but I think she was quite right. She said  she wouldn't have minded if she could have shut the door, but that it was unpleasant to  have to stand in a place like that with an open doorway right behind your back. I should  have felt just the same. But there was nothing else to be done. 
One thing that worried her a good deal was the size of the Book. The Chief Voice had not  been able to give her any idea whereabouts in the Book the spell for making things  visible came. He even seemed rather surprised at her asking. He expected her to begin at  the beginning and go on till she came to it; obviously he had never thought that there was  any other way of finding a place in a book. "But it might take me days and weeks!" said  Lucy, looking at the huge volume, "and I feel already as if I'd been in this place for  hours." 
She went up to the desk and laid her hand on the book; her fingers tingled when she  touched it as if it were full of electricity. She tried to open it but couldn't at first; this,  however, was only because it was fastened by two leaden clasps, and when she had  undone these it opened easily enough. And what a book it was! 
It was written, not printed; written in a clear, even hand, with thick downstrokes and thin  upstrokes, very large, easier than print, and so beautiful that Lucy stared at it for a whole  minute and forgot about reading it. The paper was crisp and smooth and a nice smell  came from it; and in the margins, and round the big coloured capital letters at the  beginning of each spell, there were pictures. 
There was no title page or title; the spells began straight away, and at first there was  nothing very important in them. They were cures for warts (by washing your hands in  moonlight in a silver basin) and toothache and cramp, and a spell for taking a swarm of  bees. The picture of the man with toothache was so lifelike that it would have set your 
 
 own teeth aching if you looked at it too long, and the golden bees which were dotted all  round the fourth spell looked for a moment as if they were really flying. 
  
Lucy could hardly tear herself away from that first page, but when she turned over, the  next was just as interesting. "But I must get on," she told herself. And on she went for  about thirty pages which, if she could have remembered them, would have taught her  how to find buried treasure, how to remember things forgotten, how to forget things you  wanted to forget, how to tell whether anyone was speaking the truth, how to call up (or  prevent) wind, fog, snow, sleet or rain, how to produce enchanted sleeps and how to give  a man an ass's head (as they did to poor Bottom). And the longer she read the more  wonderful and more real the pictures became. 
Then she came to a page which was such a blaze of pictures that one hardly noticed the  writing. Hardly - but she did notice the first words. They were, An infallible spell to  make beautiful her that uttereth it beyond the lot of mortals. Lucy peered at the pictures  with her face close to the page, and though they had seemed crowded and muddlesome  before, she found she could now see them quite clearly. The first was a picture of a girl  standing at a reading-desk reading in a huge book. And the girl was dressed exactly like  Lucy. In the next picture Lucy (for the girl in the picture was Lucy herself) was standing  up with her mouth open and a rather terrible expression on her face, chanting or reciting  something. In the third picture the beauty beyond the lot of mortals had come to her. It  was strange, considering how small the pictures had looked at first, that the Lucy in the  picture now seemed quite as big as the real Lucy; and they looked into each other's eyes  and the real Lucy looked away after a few minutes because she was dazzled by the beauty  of the other Lucy; though she could still see a sort of likeness to herself in that beautiful  face. And now the pictures came crowding on her thick and fast. She saw herself throned  on high at a great tournament in Calormen and all the Kings of the world fought because  of her beauty. After that it turned from tournaments to real wars, and all Narnia and  Archenland, Telmar and Calormen, Galma and Terebinthia, were laid waste with the fury  of the kings and dukes and great lords who fought for her favour. Then it changed and  Lucy, still beautiful beyond the lot of mortals, was back in England. And Susan (who had  always been the beauty of the family) came home from America. The Susan in the picture  looked exactly like the real Susan only plainer and with a nasty expression. And Susan  was jealous of the dazzling beauty of Lucy, but that didn't matter a bit because no one  cared anything about Susan now. 
"I will say the spell," said Lucy. "I don't care. I will." 
She said I don't care because she had a strong feeling that she mustn't. 
But when she looked back at the opening words of the spell, there in the middle of the  writing, where she felt quite sure there had been no picture before, she found the great  face of a lion, of The Lion, Aslan himself, staring into hers. It was painted such a bright  gold that it seemed to be coming towards her out of the page; and indeed she never was  quite sure afterwards that it hadn't really moved a little. At any rate she knew the 
 
 expression on his face quite well. He was growling and you could see most of his teeth.  She became horribly afraid and turned over the page at once. 
A little later she came to a spell which would let you know what your friends thought  about you. Now Lucy had wanted very badly to try the other spell, the one that made you  beautiful beyond the lot of mortals. So she felt that to make up for not having said it, she  really would say this one. And all in a hurry, for fear her mind would change, she said the  words (nothing will induce me to tell you what they were). Then she waited for  something to happen. 
As nothing happened she began looking at the pictures. And all at once she saw the very  last thing she expected - a picture of a third-class carriage in a train, with two schoolgirls  sitting in it. She knew them at once. They were Marjorie Preston and Anne Featherstone.  Only now it was much more than a picture. It was alive. She could see the telegraph posts  flicking past outside the window. Then gradually (like when the radio is "coming on")  she could hear what they were saying. 
"Shall I see anything of you this term?" said Anne, "or are you still going to be all taken  up with Lucy Pevensie. " 
"Don't know what you mean by taken up," said Marjorie. 
"Oh yes, you do," said Anne. "You were crazy about her last term." 
"No, I wasn't," said Marjorie. "I've got more sense than that. Not a bad little kid in her  way. But I was getting pretty tired of her before the end of term." 
"Well, you jolly well won't have the chance any other term!" shouted Lucy. "Two-faced  little beast." But the sound of her own voice at once reminded her that she was talking to  a picture and that the real Marjorie was far away in another world. 
"Well," said Lucy to herself, "I did think better of her than that. And I did all sorts of  things for her last term, and I stuck to her when not many other girls would. And she  knows it too. And to Anne Featherstone of all people! I wonder are all my friends the  same? There are lots of other pictures. No. I won't look at any more. I won't, I won't' and  with a great effort she turned over the page, but not before a large, angry tear had  splashed on it. 
On the next page she came to a spell "for the refreshment of the spirit'. The pictures were  fewer here but very beautiful. And what Lucy found herself reading was more like a story  than a spell. It went on for three pages and before she had read to the bottom of the page  she had forgotten that she was reading at all. She was living in the story as if it were real,  and all the pictures were real too. When she had got to the third page and come to the  end, she said, "That is the loveliest story I've ever read or ever shall read in my whole  life. Oh, I wish I could have gone on reading it for ten years. At least I'll read it over  again." 
 
  
But here part of the magic of the Book came into play. You couldn't turn back. The right- hand pages, the ones ahead, could be turned; the left-hand pages could not. 
"Oh, what a shame!" said Lucy. "I did so want to read it again. Well, at least I must  remember it. Let's see . . . it was about . . . about . . . oh dear, it's all fading away again. 
And even this last page is going blank. This is a very queer book. How can I have  forgotten? It was about a cup and a sword and a tree and a green hill, I know that much.  But I can't remember and what shall I do?" 
And she never could remember; and ever since that day what Lucy means by a good story  is a story which reminds her of the forgotten story in the Magician's Book. 
She turned on and found to her surprise a page with no pictures at all; but the first words  were A Spell to make hidden things visible. She read it through to make sure of all the  hard words and then said it out loud. And she knew at once that it was working because  as she spoke the colours came into the capital letters at the top of the page and the  pictures began appearing in the margins. It was like when you hold to the fire something  written in Invisible Ink and the writing gradually shows up; only instead of the dingy  colour of lemon juice (which is the easiest Invisible Ink) this was all gold and blue and  scarlet. They were odd pictures and contained many figures that Lucy did not much like  the look of. And then she thought, "I suppose I've made everything visible, and not only  the Thumpers. There might be lots of other invisible things hanging about a place like  this. I'm not sure that I want to see them all." 
At that moment she heard soft, heavy footfalls coming along the corridor behind her; and  of course she remembered what she had been told about the Magician walking in his bare  feet and making no more noise than a cat. It is always better to turn round than to have  anything creeping up behind your back. Lucy did so. 
Then her face lit up till, for a moment (but of course she didn't know it), she looked  almost as beautiful as that other Lucy in the picture, and she ran forward with a little cry  of delight and with her arms stretched out. For what stood in the doorway was Aslan  himself, The Lion, the highest of all High Kings. And he was solid and real and warm  and he let her kiss him and bury herself in his shining mane. And from the low,  earthquake-like sound that came from inside him, Lucy even dared to think that he was  purring. 
"Oh, Aslan," said she, "it was kind of you to come." 
"I have been here all the time," said he, "but you have just made me visible." 
"Aslan!" said Lucy almost a little reproachfully. "Don't make fun of me. As if anything 1  could do would make you visible!" 
 
 "It did," said Aslan. "Do you think I wouldn't obey my own rules?" 
After a little pause he spoke again. 
"Child," he said, "I think you have been eavesdropping." 
"Eavesdropping?" 
"You listened to what your two schoolfellows were saying about you." 
"Oh that? I never thought that was eavesdropping, Aslan. Wasn't it magic?" 
"Spying on people by magic is the same as spying on them in any other way. And you  have misjudged your friend. She is weak, but she loves you. She was afraid of the older  girl and said what she does not mean." 
"I don't think I'd ever be able to forget what I heard her say." 
"No, you won't." 
"Oh dear," said Lucy. "Have I spoiled everything? Do you mean we would have gone on  being friends if it hadn't been for this - and been really great friends - all our lives  perhaps- and now we never shall." 
"Child," said Aslan, "did I not explain to you once before that no one is ever told what  would have happened?" 
"Yes, Aslan, you did," said Lucy. "I'm sorry. But please -" 
"Speak on, dear heart." 
"Shall I ever be able to, read that story again; the one I couldn't remember? Will you tell  it to me, Aslan? Oh do, do, do." 
"Indeed, yes, I will tell it to you for years and years. But now, come. We must meet the  master of this house." 
 
 
CHAPTER ELEVEN 
THE DUFFLEPUDS MADE HAPPY 
Lucy followed the great Lion out into the passage and at once she saw coming towards  them an old man, barefoot, dressed in a red robe. His white hair was crowned with a 
 
 chaplet of oak leaves, his beard fell to his girdle, and he supported himself with a  curiously carved staff. When he saw Aslan he bowed low and said, 
"Welcome, Sir, to the least of your houses." 
"Do you grow weary, Coriakin, of ruling such foolish subjects as I have given you here?" 
"No," said the Magician, "they are very stupid but there is no real harm in them. I begin  to grow rather fond of the creatures. Sometimes, perhaps, I am a little impatient, waiting  for the day when they can be governed by wisdom instead of this rough magic." 
"All in good time, Coriakin," said Aslan. 
"Yes, all in very good time, Sir," was the answer. "Do you intend to show yourself to  them?" 
"Nay," said the Lion, with a little half-growl that meant (Lucy thought) the same as a  laugh. "I should frighten them out of their senses. Many stars will grow old and come to  take their rest in islands before your people are ripe for that. And today before sunset I  must visit Trumpkin the Dwarf where he sits in the castle of Cair Paravel counting the  days till his master Caspian comes home. I will tell him all your story, Lucy. Do not look  so sad. We shall meet soon again." 
"Please, Aslan," said Lucy, "what do you call soon?" 
"I call all times soon," said Aslan; and instantly he was vanished away and Lucy was  alone with the Magician. 
"Gone!" said he, "and you and I quite crestfallen. It's always like that, you can't keep him;  it's not as if he were a tame lion. And how did you enjoy my book?" 
"Parts of it very much indeed," said Lucy. "Did you know I was there all the time?" 
"Well, of course I knew when I let the Duffers make themselves invisible that you would  be coming along presently to take the spell off. I wasn't quite sure of the exact day. And I  wasn't especially on the watch this morning. You see they had made me invisible too and  being invisible always makes me so sleepy. Heigh-ho - there I'm yawning again. Are you  hungry?" 
"Well, perhaps I am a little," said Lucy. "I've no idea what the time is." 
"Come," said the Magician. "All times may be soon to Aslan; but in my home all hungry  times are one o'clock." 
He led her a little way down the passage and opened a door. Passing in, Lucy found  herself in a pleasant room full of sunlight and flowers. The table was bare when they 
 
 entered, but it was of course a magic table, and at a word from the old man the tablecloth,  silver, plates, glasses and food appeared. 
"I hope that is-what you would like," said he. "I have tried to give you food more like the  food of your own land than perhaps you have had lately." 
"It's lovely," said Lucy, and so it was; an omelette, piping hot, cold lamb and green peas,  a strawberry ice, lemonsquash to drink with the meal and a cup of chocolate to follow.  But the magician himself drank only wine and ate only bread. There was nothing  alarming about him, and Lucy and he were soon chatting away like old friends. 
"When will the spell work?" asked Lucy. "Will the Duffers be visible again at once?" 
"Oh yes, they're visible now. But they're probably all asleep still; they always take a rest  in the middle of the day." 
"And now that they're visible, are you going to let them off being ugly? Will you make  them as they were before?" 
"Well, that's rather a delicate question," said the Magician. "You see, it's only they who  think they were so nice to look at before. They say they've been uglified, but that isn't  what I called it. Many people might say the change was for the better." 
"Are they awfully conceited?" 
"They are. Or at least the Chief Duffer is, and he's taught all the rest to be. They always  believe every word he says." 
"We'd noticed that," said Lucy. 
"Yes - we'd get on better without him, in a way. Of course I could turn him into  something else, or even put a spell on him which would make them not believe a word he  said. But I don't like to do that. It's better for them to admire him than to admire nobody." 
"Don't they admire you?" asked Lucy. 
"Oh, not me," said the Magician. "They wouldn't admire me." 
"What was it you uglified them for - I mean, what they call uglified?" 
"Well, they wouldn't do what they were told. Their work is to mind the garden and raise  food - not for me, as they imagine, but for themselves. They wouldn't do it at all if I didn't  make them. And of course for a garden you want water. There is a beautiful spring about  half a mile away up the hill. And from that spring there flows a stream which comes right  past the garden. All I asked them to do was to take their water from the stream instead of  trudging up to the spring with their buckets two or three times a day and tiring themselves 
 
 out besides spilling half of it on the way back. But they wouldn't see it. In the end they  refused point blank." 
"Are they as stupid as all that?" asked Lucy. 
The Magician sighed. "You wouldn't believe the troubles I've had with them. A few  months ago they were all for washing up the plates and knives before dinner: they said it  saved time afterwards. I've caught them planting boiled potatoes to save cooking them  when they were dug up. One day the cat got into the dairy and twenty of them were at  work moving all the milk out; no one thought of moving the cat. But I see you've  finished. Let's go and look at the Duffers now they can be looked at." 
They went into another room which was full of polished instruments hard to understand -  such as Astrolabes, Orreries, Chronoscopes, Poesimeters, Choriambuses and Theodolinds  - and here, when they had come to the window, the Magician said, "There. There are your  Duffers." 
"I don't see anybody," said Lucy. "And what are those mushroom things?" 
The things she pointed at were dotted all over the level grass. They were certainly very  like mushrooms, but far too big - the stalks about three feet high and the umbrellas about  the same length from edge to edge. When she looked carefully she noticed too that the  stalks joined the umbrellas not in the middle but at one side which gave an unbalanced  look to them. And there was something - a sort of little bundle - lying on the grass at the  foot of each stalk. In fact the longer she gazed at them the less like mushrooms they  appeared. The umbrella part was not really round as she had thought at first. It was longer  than it was broad, and it widened at one end. There were a great many of them, fifty or  more. 
The clock struck three. 
Instantly a most extraordinary thing happened. Each of the "mushrooms" suddenly turned  upside-down. The little bundles which had lain at the bottom of the stalks were heads and  bodies. The stalks themselves were legs. But not two legs to each body. Each body had a  single thick leg right under it (not to one side like the leg of a one-legged man) and at the  end of it, a single enormous foot-a broadtoed foot with the toes curling up a little so that  it looked rather like a small canoe. She saw in a moment why they had looked like  mushrooms. They had been lying flat on their backs each with its single leg straight up in  the air and its enormous foot spread out above it. She learned afterwards that this was  their ordinary way of resting; for the foot kept off both rain and sun and for a Monopod to  lie under its own foot is almost as good as being in a tent. 
"Oh, the funnies, the funnies," cried Lucy, bursting into laughter. "Did you make them  like that?" 
 
 "Yes, yes. I made the Duffers into Monopods," said the Magician. He too was laughing  till the tears ran down his cheeks. "But watch," he added. 
It was worth watching. Of course these little one-footed men couldn't walk or run as we  do. They got about by jumping, like fleas or frogs. And what jumps they made! as if each  big foot were a mass of springs. And with what a bounce they came down; that was what  made the thumping noise which had so puzzled Lucy yesterday. For now they were  jumping in all directions and calling out to one another, "Hey, lads! We're visible again." 
"Visible we are," said one in a tasselled red cap who was obviously the Chief Monopod.  "And what I say is, when chaps are visible, why, they can see one another." 
"Ah, there it is, there it is, Chief," cried all the others. "There's the point. No one's got a  clearer head than you. You couldn't have made it plainer." 
"She caught the old man napping, that little girl did," said the Chief Monopod. "We've  beaten him this time." 
"Just what we were, going to say ourselves," chimed the chorus. "You're going stronger  than ever today, Chief. Keep it up, keep it up." 
"But do they dare to talk about you like that?" said Lucy. "They seemed to be so afraid of  you yesterday. Don't they know you might be listening?" 
"That's one of the funny things about the Duffers," said the Magician. "One minute they  talk as if I ran everything and overheard everything and was extremely dangerous. The  next moment they think they can take me in by tricks that a baby would see through -  bless them!" 
"Will they have to be turned back into their proper shapes?" asked Lucy. "Oh, I do hope  it wouldn't be unkind to leave them as they are. Do they really mind very much? They  seem pretty happy. I say - look at that jump. What were they like before?" 
"Common little dwarfs," said he. "Nothing like so nice as the sort you have in Narnia." 
"It would be a pity to change them back," said Lucy. "They're so funny: and they're rather  nice. Do you think it would make any difference if I told them that?" 
"I'm sure it would - if you could get it into their heads." 
"Will you come with me and try?" 
"No, no. You'll get on far better without me." 
"Thanks awfully for the lunch," said Lucy and turned quickly away. She ran down the  stairs which she had come up so nervously that morning and cannoned into Edmund at 
 
 the bottom. All the others were there with him waiting, and Lucy's conscience smote her  when she saw their anxious faces and realized how long she had forgotten them. 
"It's all right," she shouted. "Everything's all right. The Magician's a brick - and I've seen  Him - Aslan." 
After that she went from them like the wind and out into the garden. Here the earth was  shaking with the jumps and the air ringing with the shouts of the Monopods. Both were  redoubled when they caught sight of her. 
"Here she comes, here she comes," they cried. "Three cheers for the little girl. Ah! She  put it across the old gentleman properly, she did." 
"And we're extremely regrettable," said the Chief Monopod, "that we can't give you the  pleasure of seeing us as we were before we were uglified, for you wouldn't believe the  difference, and that's the truth, for there's no denying we're mortal ugly now, so we won't  deceive you." 
"Eh, that we are, Chief, that we are," echoed the others, bouncing like so many toy  balloons. "You've said it, you've said it." 
"But I don't think you are at all," said Lucy, shouting to make herself heard. "I think you  look very nice." 
"Hear her, hear her," said the Monopods. "True for you, Missie. Very nice we look. You  couldn't find a handsomer lot." They said this without any surprise and did not seem to  notice that they had changed their minds. 
"She's a-saying," remarked the Chief Monopod, "as how we looked very nice before we  were uglified." 
"True for you, Chief, true for you," chanted the others. "That's what she says. We heard  her ourselves." 
"I did not," bawled Lucy. "I said you're very nice now." 
"So she did, so she did," said the Chief Monopod, "said we were very nice then." 
"Hear 'em both, hear 'em both," said the Monopods. "There's a pair for you. Always right.  They couldn't have put it better." 
"But we're saying just the opposite," said Lucy, stamping her foot with impatience. 
"So you are, to be sure, so you are," said the Monopods. "Nothing like an opposite. Keep  it up, both of you." 
 
 "You're enough to drive anyone mad," said Lucy, and gave it up. But the Monopods  seemed perfectly contented, and she decided that on the whole the conversation had been  a success. 
And before everyone went to bed that evening something else happened which made  them even more satisfied with their one-legged condition. Caspian and all the Narnians  went back as soon as possible to the shore to give their news to Rhince and the others on  board the Dawn Treader, who were by now very anxious. And, of course, the Monopods  went with them, bouncing like footballs and agreeing with one another in loud voices till  Eustace said, "I wish the Magician would make them inaudible instead of invisible." (He  was soon sorry he had spoken because then he had to explain that an inaudible thing is  something you can't hear, and though he took a lot of trouble he never felt sure that the  Monopods had really understood, and what especially annoyed him was that they said in  the end, "Eh, he can't put things the way our Chief does. But you'll learn, young man.  Hark to him. He'll show you how to say things. There's a speaker for you!") When they  reached the bay, Reepicheep had a brilliant idea. He had his little coracle lowered and  paddled himself about in it till the Monopods were thoroughly interested. He then stood  up in it and said, "Worthy and intelligent Monopods, you do not need boats. Each of you  has a foot that will do instead. Just jump as lightly as you can on the water and see what  happens." 
The Chief Monopod hung back and warned the others that they'd find the water powerful  wet, but one or two of the younger ones tried it almost at once; and then a few others  followed their example, and at last the whole lot did the same. It worked perfectly. The  huge single foot of a Monopod acted as a natural raft or boat, and when Reepicheep had  taught them how to cut rude paddles for themselves, they all paddled about the bay and  round the Dawn Treader, looking for all the world like a fleet of little canoes with a fat  dwarf standing up in the extreme stern of each. And they had races, and bottles of wine  were lowered down to them from the ship as prizes, and the sailors stood leaning over the  ship's sides and laughed till their own sides ached. 
The Duffers were also very pleased with their new name of Monopods, which seemed to  them a magnificent name though they never got it right. "That's what we are," they  bellowed, "Moneypuds, Pomonods, Poddymons. Just what it was on the tips of our  tongues to call ourselves." But they soon got it mixed up with their old name of Duffers  and finally settled down to calling themselves the Dufflepuds; and that is what they will  probably be called for centuries. 
That evening all the Narnians dined upstairs with the Magician, and Lucy noticed how  different the whole top floor looked now that she was no longer afraid of it. The  mysterious signs on the doors were still mysterious but now looked as if they had kind  and cheerful meanings, and even the bearded mirror now seemed funny rather than  frightening. At dinner everyone had by magic what everyone liked best to eat and drink,  and after dinner the Magician did a very useful and beautiful piece of magic. He laid two  blank sheets of parchment on the table and asked Drinian to give him an exact account of  their voyage up to date: and as Drinian spoke, everything he described came out on the 
 
 parchment in fine clear lines till at last each sheet was a splendid map of the Eastern  Ocean, showing Galma, Terebinthia, the Seven Isles, the Lone Islands, Dragon Island,  Burnt Island, Deathwater, and the land of the Duffers itself, all exactly the right sizes and  in the right positions. They were the first maps ever made of those seas and better than  any that have been made since without magic. For on these, though the towns and  mountains looked at first just as they would on an ordinary map, when the Magician lent  them a magnifying glass you saw that they were perfect little pictures of the real things,  so that you could see the very castle and slave market and streets in Narrowhaven, all  very clear though very distant, like things seen through the wrong end of a telescope. The  only drawback was that the coastline of most of the islands was incomplete, for the map  showed only what Drinianhad seen with his own eyes. When they were finished the.  Magician kept one himself and presented the other to Caspian: it still hangs in his  Chamber of Instruments at Cair Paravel. But the Magician could tell them nothing about  seas or lands further east. He did, however, tell them that about seven years before a  Narnian ship had put in at his waters and that she had on board the lords Revilian, Argoz,  Mavramorn and Rhoop: so they judged that the golden man they had seen lying in  Deathwater must be the Lord Restimar. 
Next day, the Magician magically mended the stern of the Dawn Treader where it had  been damaged by the Sear Serpent and loaded her with useful gifts. There was a most  friendly parting, and when she sailed, two hours after noon, all the Dufflepuds paddled  out with her to the harbour mouth, and cheered until she was out of sound of their  cheering. 
 
 
CHAPTER TWELVE 
THE DARK ISLAND 
AFTER this adventure they sailed on south and a little east for twelve days with a gentle  wind, the skies being mostly clear and the air warm, and saw no bird or fish, except that  once there were whales spouting a long way to starboard. Lucy and Reepicheep played a  good deal of chess at this time. Then on the thirteenth day, Edmund, from the fighting  top, sighted what looked like a great dark mountain rising out of the sea on their port  bow. 
They altered course and made for this land, mostly by oar, for the wind would not serve  them to sail north-east. When evening fell they were still a long way from it and rowed  all night. Next morning the weather was fair but a flat calm. The dark mass lay ahead,  much nearer and larger, but still very dim, so that some thought it was still a long way off  and others thought they were running into a mist. 
About nine that morning, very suddenly, it was so close that they could see that it was not  land at all, nor even, in an ordinary sense, a mist. It was a Darkness. It is rather hard to 
 
 describe, but you will see what it was like if you imagine yourself looking into the mouth  of a railway tunnel - a tunnel either so long or so twisty that you cannot see the light at  the far end. And you know what it would be like. For a few feet you would see the rails  and sleepers and gravel in broad daylight; then there would come a place where they  were in twilight; and then, pretty suddenly, but of course without a sharp dividing line,  they would vanish altogether into smooth, solid blackness. It was just so here. For a few  feet in front of their bows they could see the swell of the bright greenish-blue water.  Beyond that, they could see the water looking pale and grey as it would look late in the  evening. But beyond that again, utter blackness as if they had come to the edge of  moonless and starless night. 
Caspian shouted to the boatswain to keep her back, and all except the rowers rushed  forward and gazed from the bows. But there was nothing to be seen by gazing. Behind  them was the sea and the sun, before them the Darkness. 
"Do we go into this?" asked Caspian at length. 
"Not by my advice," said Drinian. 
"The Captain's right," said several sailors. 
"I almost think he is," said Edmund. 
Lucy and Eustace didn't speak but they felt very glad inside at the turn things seemed to  be taking. But all at once the clear voice of Reepicheep broke in upon the silence. 
"And why not?" he said. "Will someone explain to me why not." 
No one was anxious to explain, so Reepicheep continued: 
"If I were addressing peasants or slaves," he said, "I might suppose that this suggestion  proceeded from cowardice. But I hope it will never be told in Narnia that a company of  noble and royal persons in the flower of their age turned tail because they were afraid of  the dark." 
"But what manner of use would it be ploughing through that blackness?" asked Drinian. 
"Use?" replied Reepicheep. "Use, Captain? If by use you mean filling our bellies or our  purses, I confess it will be no use at all. So far as I know we did not set sail to look for  things useful but to seek honour and adventure. And here is as great an adventure as ever  I heard of, and here, if we turn back, no tittle impeachment of all our honours." 
Several of the sailors said things under their breath that sounded like "Honour be  blowed", but Caspian said: 
 
 "Oh, bother you, Reepicheep. I almost wish we'd left you at home. All right! If you put it  that way, I suppose we shall have to go on. Unless Lucy would rather not?" 
Lucy felt that she would very much rather not, but what she said out loud was, "I'm  game." 
"Your Majesty will at least order lights?" said Drinian. 
"By all means," said Caspian. "See to it, Captain." 
So the three lanterns, at the stern, and the prow and the masthead, were all lit, and  Drinian ordered two torches amidships. Pale and feeble they looked in the sunshine. Then  all the men except some who were left below at the oars were ordered on deck and fully  armed and posted in their battle stations with swords drawn. Lucy and two archers were  posted on the fighting top with bows bent and arrows on the string. Rynelf was in the  bows with his line ready to take soundings. Reepicheep, Edmund, Eustace and Caspian,  glittering in mail, were with him. Drinian took the tiller. 
"And now, in Aslan's name, forward!" cried Caspian. "A slow, steady stroke. And let  every man be silent and keep his ears open for orders." 
With a creak and a groan the Dawn Treader started to creep forward as the men began to  row. Lucy, up in the fighting top, had a wonderful view of the exact moment at which  they entered the darkness. The bows had already disappeared before the sunlight had left  the stern. She saw it go. At one minute the gilded stern, the blue sea, and the sky, were all  in broad daylight: next minute the sea and sky had vanished, the stern lantern - which had  been hardly noticeable before - was the only thing to show where the ship ended. In front  of the lantern she could see the black shape of Drinian crouching at the tiller. Down  below her the two torches made visible two small patches of deck and gleamed on swords  and helmets, and forward there was another island of light on the forecastle. Apart from  that, the fighting top, lit by the masthead light which was only just above her, seemed to  be a little lighted world of its own floating in lonely darkness. And the lights themselves,  as always happens with lights when you have to have them at the wrong time of day,  looked lurid and unnatural. She also noticed that she was very cold. 
How long this voyage into the darkness lasted, nobody knew. Except for the creak of the  rowlocks and the splash of the oars there was nothing to show that they were moving at  all. Edmund, peering from the bows, could see nothing except the reflection of the lantern  in the water before him. It looked a greasy sort of reflection, and the ripple made by their  advancing prow appeared to be heavy, small, and lifeless. As time went on everyone  except the rowers began to shiver with cold. 
Suddenly, from somewhere - no one's sense of direction was very clear by now - there  came a cry, either of some inhuman voice or else a voice of one in such extremity of  terror that he had almost lost his humanity. 
 
 Caspian was still trying to speak - his mouth was too dry - when the shrill voice of  Reepicheep, which sounded louder than usual in that silence, was heard. 
"Who calls?" it piped. "If you are a foe we do not fear you, and if you are a friend your  enemies shall be taught the fear of us." 
"Mercy!" cried the voice. "Mercy! Even if you are only one more dream, have merry.  Take me on board. Take me, even if you strike me dead. But in the name of all mercies  do not fade away and leave me in this horrible land." 
"Where are you?" shouted Caspian. "Come aboard and welcome." 
There came another cry, whether of joy or terror, and then they knew that someone was  swimming towards them. 
"Stand by to heave him up, men," said Caspian. 
"Aye, aye, your Majesty," said the sailors. Several crowded to the port bulwark with  ropes and one, leaning far out over the side, held the torch. A wild, white face appeared  in the blackness of the water, and then, after some scrambling and pulling, a dozen  friendly hands had heaved the stranger on board. 
Edmund thought he had never seen a wilder-looking man. Though he did not otherwise  look very old, his hair was an untidy mop of white, his face was thin and drawn, and, for  clothing, only a few wet rags hung about him. But what one mainly noticed were his  eyes, which were so widely opened that he seemed to have no eyelids at all, and stared as  if in an agony of pure fear. The moment his feet reached the deck he said: 
"Fly! Fly! About with your ship and fly! Row, row, row for your lives away from this  accursed shore." 
"Compose yourself," said Reepicheep, "and tell us what the danger is. We are not used to  flying." 
The stranger started horribly at the voice of the Mouse, which he had not noticed before. 
"Nevertheless you will fly from here," he gasped. "This is the Island where Dreams come  true." 
"That's the island I've been looking for this long time," said one of the sailors. "I  reckoned I'd find I was married to Nancy if we landed here." 
"And I'd find Tom alive again," said another. 
"Fools!" said the man, stamping his foot with rage. "That is the sort of talk that brought  me here, and I'd better have been drowned or never born. Do you hear what I say? This is 
 
 where dreams -dreams, do you understand, come to life, come real. Not daydreams:  dreams." 
There was about half a minute's silence and then, with a great clatter of armour, the whole  crew were tumbling down the main hatch as quick as they could and flinging themselves  on the oars to row as they had never rowed before; and Drinian was swinging round the  tiller, and the boatswain was giving out the quickest stroke that had ever been heard at  sea. For it had taken everyone just that halfminute to remember certain dreams they had  had - dreams that make you afraid of going to sleep again - and to realize what it would  mean to land on a country where dreams come true. 
Only Reepicheep remained unmoved. 
"Your Majesty, your Majesty," he said, "are you going to tolerate this mutiny, this  poltroonery? This is a panic, this is a rout." 
"Row, row," bellowed Caspian. "Pull for all our lives. Is her head right, Drinian? You can  say what you like, Reepicheep. There are some things no man can face." 
"It is, then, my good fortune not to be a man," replied Reepicheep with a very stiff bow. 
Lucy from up aloft had heard it all. In an instant that one of her own dreams which she  had tried hardest to forget came back to her as vividly as if she had only just woken from  it. So that was what was behind them, on the island, in the darkness! For a second she  wanted to go down to the deck and be with Edmund and Caspian. But what was the use?  If dreams began coming true, Edmund and Caspian themselves might turn into something  horrible just as she reached them. She gripped the rail of the fighting top and tried to  steady herself. They were rowing back to the light as hard as they could: it would be all  right in a few seconds. But oh, if only it could be all right now! 
Though the rowing made a good deal of noise it did not quite conceal the total silence  which surrounded the ship. 
Everyone knew it would be better not to listen, not to strain his ears for any sound from  the darkness. But no one could help listening. And soon everyone was hearing things.  Each one heard something different. 
"Do you hear a noise like . . . like a huge pair of scissors opening and shutting .. . over  there?" Eustace asked Rynelf. 
"Hush!" said Rynelf. "I can hear them crawling up the sides of the ship." 
"It's just going to settle on the mast," said Caspian. 
"Ugh!" said a sailor. "There are the gongs beginning. I knew they would." 
 
 Caspian, trying not to look at anything (especially not to keep looking behind him), went  aft to Drinian. 
"Drinian," he said in a very low voice. "How long did we take rowing in? - I mean  rowing to where we picked up . the stranger." 
"Five minutes, perhaps," whispered Drinian. "Why?" 
"Because we've been more than that already trying to get out." 
Drinian's hand shook on the tiller and a line of cold sweat ran down his face. The same  idea was occurring to everyone on board. "We shall never get out, never get' out,"  moaned the rowers. "He's steering us wrong. We're going round and round in circles. We  shall never get out." The stranger, who had been lying in a huddled heap on the deck, sat  up and burst out into a horrible screaming laugh. 
"Never get out!" he yelled. "That's it. Of course. We shall never get out. What a fool I  was to have thought they would let me go as easily as that. No, no, we shall never get  out." 
Lucy leant her head on the edge of the fighting top and whispered, "Aslan, Aslan, if ever  you loved us at all, send us help now." The darkness did not grow any less, but she began  to feel a little - a very, very little - better. "After all, nothing has really happened to us  yet," she thought. 
"Look!" cried Rynelf's voice hoarsely from the bows. There was a tiny speck of light  ahead, and while they watched a broad beam of light fell from it upon the ship. It did not  alter the surrounding darkness, but the whole ship was lit up as if by searchlight. Caspian  blinked, stared round, saw the faces of his companions all with wild, fixed expressions.  Everyone was staring in the same direction: behind everyone lay his black, sharply-edged  shadow. 
Lucy looked along the beam and presently saw something in it. At first it looked like a  cross, then it looked like an aeroplane, then it looked like a kite, and at last with a  whirring of wings it was right overhead and was an albatross. It circled three times round  the mast and then perched for an instant on the crest of the gilded dragon at the prow. It  called out in a strong sweet voice what seemed to be words though no one understood  them. After that it spread its wings, rose, and began to fly slowly ahead, bearing a little to  starboard. Drinian steered after it not doubting that it offered good guidance. But no one  except Lucy knew that as it circled the mast it had whispered to her, "Courage, dear  heart," and the voice, she felt sure, was Aslan's, and with the voice a delicious smell  breathed in her face. 
In a few moments the darkness turned into a greyness ahead, and then, almost before they  dared to begin hoping, they had shot out into the sunlight and were in the warm, blue  world again. And all at once everybody realized that there was nothing to be afraid of and 
 
 never had been. They blinked their eyes and looked about them. The brightness of the  ship herself astonished them: they had half expected to find that the darkness would cling  to the white and the green and the gold in the form of some grime or scum. And then first  one, and then another, began laughing. 
"I reckon we've made pretty good fools of ourselves," said Rynelf. 
Lucy lost no time in coming down to the deck, where she found the others all gathered  round the newcomer. For a long time he was too happy to speak, and could only gaze at  the sea and the sun and feel the bulwarks and the ropes, as if to make sure he was really  awake, while tears rolled down his cheeks. 
"Thank you," he said at last. "You have saved me from . . . but I won't talk of that. And  now let me know who you are. I am a Telmarine of Narnia, and when I was worth  anything men called me the Lord Rhoop." 
"And I," said Caspian, "am Caspian, King of Narnia, and I sail to find you and your  companions who were my father's friends." 
Lord Rhoop fell on his knees and kissed the King's hand. "Sire," he said, "you are the  man in all the world I most wished to see. Grant me a boon." 
"What is it?" asked Caspian. 
"Never to bring me back there," he said. He pointed astern. They all looked. But they saw  only bright blue sea and bright blue sky. The Dark Island and the darkness had vanished  for ever. 
"Why!" cried Lord Rhoop. "You have destroyed it!" 
"I don't think it was us," said Lucy. 
"Sire," said Drinian, "this wind is fair for the southeast. Shall I have our poor fellows up  and set sail? And after that, every man who can be spared, to his hammock." 
"Yes," said Caspian, "and let there be grog all round. Heigh-ho, I feel I could sleep the  clock round myself." 
So all afternoon with great joy they sailed south-east with a fair wind. But nobody  noticed when the albatross had disappeared. 
 
 
CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
 
 THE THREE SLEEPERS 
THE wind never failed but it grew gentler every day till at length the waves were little  more than ripples, and the ship glided on hour after hour almost as if they were sailing on  a lake. And every night they saw that there rose in the east new constellations which no  one had ever seen in Narnia and perhaps, as Lucy thought with a mixture of joy and fear,  no living eye had seen at all. Those new stars were big and bright and the nights were  warm. Most of them slept on deck and talked far into the night or hung over the ship's  side watching the luminous dance of the foam thrown up by their bows. 
On an evening of startling beauty, when the sunset behind them was so crimson and  purple and widely spread that the very sky itself seemed to have grown larger, they came  in sight of land on their starboard bow. It came slowly nearer and the light behind them  made it look as if the capes and headlands of this new country were all on fire. But  presently they were sailing along its coast and its western cape now rose up astern of  them, black against the red sky and sharp as if it was cut out of cardboard, and then they  could see better what this country was like. It had no mountains but many gentle hills  with slopes like pillows. An attractive smell came from it - what Lucy called "a dim,  purple kind of smell", which Edmund said (and Rhince thought) was rot, but Caspian  said, "I know what you mean." 
They sailed on a good way, past point after point, hoping to find a nice deep harbour, but  had to content themselves in the end with a wide and shallow bay. Though it had seemed  calm out at sea there was of course surf breaking on the sand and they could not bring the  Dawn Treader as far in as they would have liked. They dropped anchor a good way from  the beach and had a wet and tumbling landing in the boat. The Lord Rhoop remained on  board the Dawn Treader. He wished to see no more islands. All the time that they  remained in this country the sound of the long breakers was in their ears. 
Two men were left to guard the boat and Caspian led the others inland, but not far  because it was too late for exploring and the light would soon go. But there was no need  to go far to find an adventure. The level valley which lay at the head of the bay showed  no road or track or other sign of habitation. Underfoot was tine springy turf dotted here  and there with a low bushy growth which Edmund and Lucy took for heather. Eustace,  who was really rather good at botany; said it wasn't, and he was probably right; but it was  something of very much the same kind. 
When they had gone less than a bowshot from the shore, Drinian said, "Look! What's  that?" and everyone stopped. 
"Are they great trees?" said Caspian. 
"Towers, l think," said Eustace. 
"It might be giants," said Edmund in a lower voice. 
 
 "The way to find out is to go right iv among them," said Reepicheep, drawing his sword  and pattering off ahead of everyone else. 
"I think it's a ruin," said Lucy when they had got a good deal nearer, and her guess was  the best so far. What they now saw was a wide oblong space flagged with smooth stones  and surrounded by grey pillars but unroofed. And from end to end of it ran a long table  laid with a rich crimson cloth that came down nearly to the pavement. At either side of it  were many chairs of stone richly carved and with silken cushions upon the seats. But on  the table itself there was set out such a banquet as had never been seen, not even when  Peter the High King kept his court at Cair Paravel. There were turkeys and geese and  peacocks, there were boars' heads and sides of venison, there were pies shaped like ships  under full sail or like dragons and elephants, there were ice puddings and bright lobsters  and gleaming salmon, there were nuts and grapes, pineapples and peaches, pomegranates  and melons and tomatoes. There were flagons of gold and silver and curiouslywrought  glass; and the smell of the fruit and the wine blew towards them like a promise of all  happiness. 
"I say!" said Lucy. 
They came nearer and nearer, all very quietly. 
"But where are the guests?" asked Eustace. 
"We can provide that, Sir," said Rhince. 
"Look!" said Edmund sharply. They were actually within the pillars now and standing on  the pavement. Everyone looked where Edmund had pointed. The chairs were not all  empty. At the head of the table and in the two places beside it there was something- or  possibly three somethings. 
"What are those?" asked Lucy in a whisper. "It looks like three beavers sitting on the  table." 
"Or a huge bird's nest," said Edmund. 
"It looks more like a haystack to me," said Caspian. 
Reepicheep ran forward, jumped on a chair and thence on to the table, and ran along it,  threading his way as nimbly as a dancer between jewelled cups and pyramids of fruit and  -ivory salt-cellars. He ran right up to the mysterious grey mass at the end: peered,  touched, and then called out: 
"These will not fight, I think." 
Everyone now came close and saw that what sat in those three chairs was three men,  though hard to recognize as men till you looked closely. Their hair, which was grey, had 
 
 grown over their eyes till it almost concealed their, faces, and their beards had grown  over the table, climbing pound and entwining plates and goblets as brambles; entwine a  fence, until, all mixed in one great mat of hair, they flowed over the edge and down to the  floor. And from their heads the hair hung over the backs of their chairs so that they were  wholly hidden. In fact the three men were; nearly all hair. 
"Dead?" said Caspian. 
"I think not, Sire," said Reepicheep, lifting one of their hands out of its tangle of hair in  his two paws. "This one is warm and his pulse beats." 
"This one, too, and this," said Drinian. 
"Why, they're only asleep," said Eustace. 
"It's been a long sleep, though," said Edmund, "to let their hair grow like this." 
"It must be an enchanted sleep," said Lucy. "I felt the moment we landed on this island  that it was full of magic. Oh! do you think we have perhaps come here to break it?" 
"We can try," said Caspian, and began shaking the nearest of the three sleepers. For a  moment everyone thought he was going to be successful, for the man breathed hard and  muttered, "I'll go eastward no more. Out oars for Narnia." But he sank back almost at  once into a yet deeper sleep than before: that is, his heavy head sagged a few inches  lower towards the table and all efforts to rouse him again were useless. With the second it  was much the same. "Weren't born to live like animals. Get to the east while you've a  chance - lands behind the sun," and sank down. And the third only said, "Mustard,  please," and slept hard. 
"Out oars for Narnia, eh?" said Drinian. 
"Yes," said Caspian, "you are right, Drinian. I think our quest is at an end. Let's look at  their rings. Yes, these are their devices. This is the Lord Revilian. This is the Lord Argoz:  and this, the Lord Mavramorn." 
"But we can't wake them," said Lucy. "What are we to do?" 
"Begging your Majesties' pardons all," said Rhince, "but why not fall to while you're  discussing it? We don't see a dinner like this every day." 
"Not for your life!" said Caspian. 
"That's right, that's right," said several of the sailors. 
"Too much magic about here. The sooner we're back on board the better." 
 
 "Depend upon it," said Reepicheep, "it was from eating this food that these three lords  came by a seven years' sleep." 
"I wouldn't touch it to save my life," said Drinian. 
"The light's going uncommon quick," said Rynelf. 
"Back to ship, back to ship," muttered the men. 
"I really think," said Edmund, "they're right. We can decide what to do with the three  sleepers tomorrow. We daren't eat the food and there's no point in staying here for the  night. The whole place smells of magic - and danger." 
"I am entirely of King Edmund's opinion," said Reepicheep, "as far as concerns the ship's  company in general. But I myself will sit at this table till sunrise." 
"Why on earth?" said Eustace. 
"Because," said the Mouse, "this is a very great adventure, and no danger seems to me so  great as that of knowing when I get back to Narnia that I left a mystery behind me  through fear." 
"I'll stay with you, Reep," said Edmund. 
"And I too," said Caspian. 
"And me," said Lucy. And then Eustace volunteered also. This was very brave of him  because never having read of such things or even heard of them till he joined the Dawn  Treader made it worse for him than for the others. 
"I beseech your Majesty -" began Drinian. 
"No, my Lord," said Caspian. "Your place is with the ship, and you have had a day's  work while we five have idled." There was a lot of argument about this but in the end  Caspian had his way. As the crew marched off to the shore in the gathering dusk none of  the five watchers, except perhaps Reepicheep, could avoid a cold feeling in the stomach. 
They took some time choosing their seats at the perilous table. Probably everyone had the  same reason but no one said it out loud. For it was really a rather nasty choice. One could  hardly bear to sit all night next to those three terrible hairy objects which, if not dead,  were certainly not alive in the ordinary sense. On the other hand, to sit at the far end, so  that you would see them less and less as the night grew darker, and wouldn't know if they  were moving, and perhaps wouldn't see them at all by about two o'clock no, it was not to  be thought of. So they sauntered round and round the table saying, "What about here?"  and "Or perhaps a bit further on," or, "Why not on this side?" till at last they settled down  somewhere about the middle but nearer to the sleepers than to the other end. It was about 
 
 ten by now and almost dark. Those strange new constellations burned in the east. Lucy  would have liked it better if they had been the Leopard and the Ship and other old friends  of the Narnian sky. 
They wrapped themselves in their sea cloaks and sat still and waited. At first there was  some attempt at talk but it didn't come to much. And they sat and sat. And all the time  they heard the waves breaking on the beach. 
After hours that seemed like ages there came a moment when they all knew they had  been dozing a moment before but were all suddenly wide awake. The stars were all in  quite different positions from those they had last noticed. The sky was very black except  for the faintest possible greyness in the east. They were cold, though thirsty, and stiff.  And none of them spoke because now at last something was happening. 
Before them, beyond the pillars, there was the slope of a low hill. And now a door opened  in the hillside, and light appeared in the doorway, and a figure came out, and the door  shut behind it. The figure carried a light, and this light was really all that they could see  distinctly. It came slowly nearer and nearer till at last it stood right at the table opposite to  them. Now they could see that it was a tall girl, dressed in a single long garment of clear  blue which left her arms bare. She was bareheaded and her yellow hair hung down her  back. And when they looked at her they thought they had never before known what  beauty meant. 
The light which she had been carrying was a tall candle in a silver candlestick which she  now set upon the table. If there had been any wind off the sea earlier in the night it must  have died down by now, for the flame of the candle burned as straight and still as if it  were in a room with the windows shut and the curtains drawn. Gold and silver on the  table shone in its light. 
Lucy now noticed something lying lengthwise on the table which had escaped her  attention before. It was a knife of stone, sharp as steel, a cruel-looking, ancient looking  thing. 
No one had yet spoken a word. Then - Reepicheep first, and Caspian next - they all rose  to their feet, because they felt that she was a great lady. 
"Travellers who have come from far to Aslan's table," said the girl. "Why do you not eat  and drink?" 
"Madam," said Caspian, "we feared the food because we thought it had cast our friends  into an enchanted sleep. 
"They have never tasted it," she said. 
"Please," said Lucy, "what happened to them?" 
 
 "Seven years ago," said the girl, "they came here in a ship whose sails were rags and  timbers ready to fall apart. There were a few others with them, sailors, and when they  came to this table one said, `Here is the good place. Let us set sail and reef sail and row  no longer but sit down and end our days in peace!' And the second said, `No, let us re- embark and sail for Narnia and the west; it may be that Miraz is dead.' But the third, who  was a very masterful man, leaped up and said, `No, by heaven. We are men and  Telmarines, not brutes. What should we do but seek adventure after adventure? We have  not long to live in any event. Let us spend what is left in seeking the unpeopled world  behind the sunrise.' And as they quarrelled he caught up the Knife of Stone which lies  there on the table and would have fought with his comrades. But it is a thing not right for  him to touch. And as his fingers closed upon the hilt, deep sleep fell upon all the three.  And till the enchantment is undone they will never wake." 
"What is this Knife of Stone?" asked Eustace. 
"Do none of you know it?" said the girl. 
"I - I think," said Lucy, "I've seen something like it before. It was a knife like it that the  White Witch used when she killed Aslan at the Stone Table long ago." 
"It was the same.," said the girl, "and it was brought here to be kept in honour while the  world lasts." 
Edmund, who had been looking more and more uncomfortable for the last few minutes,  now spoke. 
"Look here," he said, "I hope I'm not a coward - about eating this food, I mean - and I'm  sure I don't mean to be rude. But we have had a lot of queer adventures on this voyage of  ours and things aren't always what they seem. When I look in your face I can't help  believing all you say: but then that's just what might happen with a witch too. How are  we to know you're a friend?" 
"You can't know," said the girl. "You can only believe or not." 
After a moment's pause Reepicheep's small voice was heard. 
"Sire," he said to Caspian, "of your courtesy fill my cup with wine from that flagon: it is  too big for me to lift. I will drink to the lady." 
Caspian obeyed and the Mouse, standing on the table, held up a golden cup between its  tiny paws and said, "Lady, I pledge you." Then it fell to on cold peacock, and in a short  while everyone else followed its example. All were very hungry and the meal, if not quite  what you wanted for a very early breakfast, was excellent as a very late supper. 
"Why is it called Aslan's table?" asked Lucy presently. 
 
 "It is set here by his bidding," said the girl, "for those who come so far. Some call this  island the World's End, for though you can sail further, this is the beginning of the end." 
"But how does the food keep?" asked the practical Eustace. ? 
"It is eaten, and renewed every day," said the girl. "This you will see." 
"And what are we to do about the Sleepers?" asked Caspian. "In the world from which  my friends come" (here, he nodded at Eustace and the Pevensies) "they have a story of a  prince or a king coming to a castle where all the people lay in an enchanted sleep. In that  story he could not dissolve the enchantment until he had kissed the Princess." 
"But here," said the girl, "it is different. Here he cannot kiss the Princess till he has  dissolved the enchantment." 
"Then," said Caspian, "in the name of Aslan, show me how to set about that work at  once." 
"My father will teach you that," said the girl. 
"Your father!" said everyone. "Who is he? And where?" 
"Look," said the girl, turning round and pointing at the door in the hillside. They could  see it more easily now, for while they had been talking the stars had grown fainter and  great gaps of white light were appearing in the greyness of the eastern sky. 
 
 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN 
THE BEGINNING OF THE END OF THE WORLD 
Slowly the door opened again and out there came a figure as tall and straight as the girl's  but not so slender. It carried no light but light seemed to come from it. As it came nearer,  Lucy saw that it was like an old man. His silver beard came down to his bare feet in front  and his saver hair hung down to his heels behind and his robe appeared to be made from  the fleece of silver sheep. He looked so mild and grave that once more all the travellers  rose to their feet and stood in silence. 
But the old man came on without speaking to the travellers and stood on the other side of  the table opposite to his daughter. Then both of them held up their arms before them and  turned to face the east. In that position the began to sing. I wish I could write down the  song, but one who was present could remember it. Lucy said afterwards that it was high,  almost shrill, but very beautiful, cold kind of song, an early morning kind of song. And  they sang, the grey clouds lifted from the eastern sky a the white patches 'grew bigger and 
 
 bigger till it was white, and the sea began to shine like silver. And long afterwards (but  those two sang all the time) the east began to turn red and at last, unclouded, the sun  came up out the sea and its long level ray shot down the length of the table on the gold  and silver sand on the Stone Knife. 
Once or twice before, the Narnians had wondered whether the sun at its rising did not  look bigger in these seas than it had looked at home. This time they we certain. There  was no mistaking it. And the brightness its ray on the dew and on the table was far  beyond an. morning brightness they had ever seen. And as Edmu said afterwards,  "Though lots of things happened on that trip which sound more exciting, that moment  was really the most exciting." For now they knew that they had truly come to the  beginning of the End of the World. 
Then something seemed to be flying at them out of the very centre of the rising sun: but  of course one couldn't look steadily in that direction to make sure. But presently the air  became full of voices - voices which took up same song that the Lady and her Father  were singing, but in far wilder tones and in a language which no one knew And soon after  that the owners of these voices could be seen. They were birds, large and white, and they  came hundreds and thousands and alighted on everything; the grass, and the pavement,  on the table, on your shoulders, your hands, and your head, till it looked as heavy snow  had fallen. For, like snow, they not only make everything white but blurred and blunted  all shapes. But Lucy, looking out from between the wings of the birds that covered her,  saw one bird fly to the Old Man with something in its beak that looked like a little fruit,  unless it was a little live coal, which it might have been, for it was too bright to look at.  And the bird laid it in the Old Man's mouth. 
  
Then the birds stopped their singing and appeared to be very busy about the table. When  they rose from it again everything on the table that could be eaten or drunk had  disappeared. These birds rose from their meal in their thousands and hundreds and carried  away all the things that could not be eaten or drunk, such as bones, rinds, and shells, and  took their flight back to the rising sun. But now, because they were not singing, the whir  of their wings seemed to set the whole air a-tremble. And there was the table pecked  clean and empty, and the three old Lords of Narnia still fast asleep. 
Now at last the Old Man turned to the travellers and bade them welcome. 
"Sir," said Caspian, "will you tell us how to undo the enchantment which holds these  three Narnian Lords asleep." 
"I will gladly tell you that, my son," said the Old Man. "To break this enchantment you  must sail to the World's End, or as near as you can come to it, and you must come back  having left at least one of your company behind." 
"And what must happen to that one?" asked Reepicheep. 
 
 "He must go on into the utter east and never return into the world." 
"That is my heart's desire," said Reepicheep. 
"And are we near the World's End now, Sir?" asked Caspian. "Have you any knowledge  of the seas and lands further east than this?" 
"I saw them long ago," said the Old Man, "but it was from a great height. I cannot tell  you such things as sailor need to know." 
"Do you mean you were flying in the air?" Eustace blurted out. 
"I was a long way above the air, my son," replied the Old Man. "I am Ramandu. But I see  that you stare at on another and have not heard this name. And no wonder, for the days  when I was a star had ceased long before any of you knew this world, and all the  constellations have changed." 
"Golly," said Edmund under his breath. "He's a retired star." 
"Aren't you a star any longer?" asked Lucy. 
"I am a star at rest, my daughter," answered Ramandu 
"When I set for the last time, decrepit and old beyond all that you can reckon, I was  carried to this island. I am not so old now as I was then. Every morning a bird brings me  a fire-berry from the valleys in the Sun, and each fire-berry takes away a little of my age.  And when I have become as young as the child that was born yesterday, then I shall take  my rising again (for we are at earth's eastern rim) and once more tread the great dance." 
"In our world," said Eustace, "a star is a huge ball of flaming gas." 
"Even in your world, my son, that is not what a star is but only what it is made of. And in  this world you ave already met a star, for I think you have been with Coriakin." 
"Is he a retired star, too?" said Lucy. 
"Well, not quite the same," said Ramandu. "It was not quite as a rest than he was set to  govern the Duffers. You might call it a punishment. He might have shone for thousands  of years more in the southern winter sky if all had gone well." 
"What did he do, Sir?" asked Caspian. 
"My son," said Ramandu, "it is not for you, a son of Adam, to know what faults a star can  commit. But come, we waste time in such talk. Are you yet resolved? Will you sail  further east and come again, leaving one to return no more, and so break the  enchantment? Or will you sail westward?" 
 
  
"Surely, Sire," said Reepicheep, "there is no question about that? It is very plainly part of  our quest to rescue these three lords from enchantment." 
"I think the same, Reepicheep," replied Caspian. "And even if it were not so, it would  break my heart not to go as near the World's End as the Dawn Treader will take us. But I  am thinking of the crew. They signed on to seek the seven lords, not to reach the rim of  the Earth. If we sail east from here we sail to find the edge, the utter east. And not one  knows how far it is. They're brave fellows, but I set signs that some of them are weary of  the voyage and long to have our prow pointing to Narnia again. I don't think should take  them further without their knowledge an consent. And then there's the poor Lord Rhoop.  He's broken man." 
"My son," said the star, "it would be no use, even though you wished it, to sail for the  World's End with men unwilling or men deceived. That is not how great unenchantments  are achieved. They must know where they go and why. But who is this broken man you  speak of?" 
Caspian told Ramandu the story of Rhoop. 
"I can give him what he needs most," said Ramandu. "I this island there is sleep without  stint or measure, and sleep in which no faintest footfall of a dream was ever heard. Let  him sit beside these other three and drink oblivion till you return." 
"Oh, do let's do that, Caspian," said Lucy. "I'm sure its just what he would love." 
At that moment they were interrupted by the sound of many feet and voices: Drinian and  the rest of the ship company were approaching. They halted in surprise whey they saw  Ramandu and his daughter; and then, because these were obviously great people, every  man uncovered his head. Some sailors eyed the empty dishes and flagons on the table  with regret. 
"My lord," said the King to Drinian, "pray send two men back to the Dawn Treader with  a message to the Lord Rhoop. Tell him that the last of his old shipmates are here asleep -  a sleep without dreams - and that he can share it." 
When this had been done, Caspian told the rest to sit down and laid the whole situation  before them. When he had finished there was a long silence and some whispering until  presently the Master Bowman got to his feet, and said: 
"What some of us have been wanting to ask for a long time, your Majesty, is how we're  ever to get home when we do turn, whether we turn here or somewhere else. It's been  west and north-west winds all the way, barring an occasional calm. And if that doesn't  change, I'd like to know what hopes we have of seeing Narnia again. There's not much  chance of supplies lasting while we row all that way. 
 
 "That's landsman's talk," said Drinian. "There's always a prevailing west wind in these  seas all through the late summer, and it always changes after the New Year. We'll have  plenty of wind for sailing westward; more than we shall like from all accounts." 
  
"That's true, Master," said an old sailor who was a Galmian by birth. "You get some ugly  weather rolling up from the east in January and February. And by your leave, Sire, if I  was in command of this ship I'd say to winter here and begin the voyage home in March." 
"What'd you eat while you were wintering here?" asked Eustace. 
"This table," said Ramandu, "will be filled with a king's feast every day at sunset." 
"Now you're talking!" said several sailors. 
"Your Majesties and gentlemen and ladies all," said Rynelf, "there's just one thing I want  to say. There's not one of us chaps as was pressed on this journey. We're volunteers. And  there's some here chat are looking very hard at that table and thinking about king's feasts  who were talking very loud about adventures on the day we sailed from Cair Paravel, and  swearing they wouldn't come home till we'd found the end of the world. And there were  some standing on the quay who would have given all they had to come with us. It was  thought a finer thing then to have a cabin-boy's berth on the Dawn Treader than to wear a  knight's belt. I don't know if you get the hang of what I'm saying. But what I mean is that  I think chaps who set out like us will look as silly as - as those Dufflepuds - if we come  home and say we got to the beginning of the world's end and hadn't the heart to go  further." 
Some of the sailors cheered at this but some said that that was all very well. 
"This isn't going to be much fun," whispered Edmund to Caspian. "What are we to do if  half those fellows hang back?" 
"Wait," Caspian whispered back. "I've still a card to play." 
"Aren't you going to say anything, Reep?" whispered Lucy. 
"No. Why should your Majesty expect it?" answered Reepicheep in a voice that most  people heard. "My owns plans are made. While I can, I sail east in the Dawn Treader.  When she fails me, I paddle east in my coracle. When she sinks, I shall swim east with  my four paws. And when I can swim no longer, if I have not reached Aslan's country, or  shot over the edge of the world in some vast cataract, I shall sink with my nose to the  sunrise and Peepiceek will be head of the talking mice in Narnia." 
"Hear, hear," said a sailor, "I'll say the same, barring the bit about the coracle, which  wouldn't bear me." He added in a lower voice, "I'm not going to be outdone by a mouse." 
 
 At this point Caspian jumped to his feet. "Friends," he said, "I think you have not quite  understood our purpose. You talk as if we had come to you with our hat in our hand,  begging for shipmates. It isn't like that at all. We and our royal brother and sister and  their kinsman and Sir Reepicheep, the good knight, and the Lord Drinian have an errand  to the world's edge. It is our pleasure to choose from among such of you as are willing  those whom we deem worthy of so high an enterprise. We have not said that any can  come for the asking. That is why we shall now command the Lord Drinian and Master  Rhince to consider carefully what men among you are the hardest in battle, the most  skilled seamen, the purest in blood, the most loyal to our person, and the cleanest of life  and manners; and to give their names to us in a schedule." He paused and went on in a  quicker voice, "Aslan's mane!" he exclaimed. "Do you think that the privilege of seeing  the last things is to be bought for a song? Why, every man that comes with us shall  bequeath the title of Dawn Treader to all his descendants, and when we land at Cair  Paravel on the homeward voyage he shall have either gold or land enough to make him  rich all his life. Now - scatter over the island, all of you. In half an hour's time I shall  receive the names that Lord Drinian brings me." 
There was rather a sheepish silence and then the crew made their bows and moved away,  one in this direction and one in that, but mostly in little knots or bunches, talking. 
"And now for the Lord Rhoop," said Caspian. 
But turning to the head of the table he saw that Rhoop was already there. He had arrived,  silent and unnoticed, while the discussion was going on, and was seated beside the Lord  Argoz. The daughter of Ramandu stood beside him as if she had just helped him into his  chair; Ramandu stood behind him and laid both his hands on Rhoop's grey head. Even in  daylight a faint silver light came from the hands of the star. There was a smile on Rhoop's  haggard face. He held out one of his hands to Lucy and the other to Caspian. For a  moment it looked as if he were going to say something. Then his smile brightened as if he  were feeling) some delicious sensation, a long sigh of contentment came from his lips, his  head fell forward, and he slept. 
"Poor Rhoop," said Lucy. "I am glad. He must have had terrible times." ' 
"Don't let's even think of it," said Eustace. 
Meanwhile Caspian's speech, helped perhaps by some magic of the island, was having  just the effect he intended. A good many who had been anxious enough to get out of the  voyage felt quite differently about being left out of it. And of course whenever any one  sailor announced that he had made up his mind to ask for permission to sail, the ones who  hadn't said this felt that they were getting fewer and more uncomfortable. So that before  the half-hour was nearly over several people were positively "sucking up" to Drinian and  Rhince (at least that was what they called it at my school) to get a good report. And soon  there were only three left who didn't want to go, and those three were trying very hard to  persuade others to stay with them. And very shortly after that there was only one left. 
 
 And in they end he began to be afraid of being left behind all on his own and changed his  mind. 
At the end of the half-hour they all came trooping back to Aslan's Table and stood at one  end while Drinian and Rhince went and sat down with Caspian and made their report;  and Caspian accepted all the man but that one who'd had changed his mind at the last  moment. His name was Pittencream and he stayed on the Island of the Star all the time  the others were away looking for the World's End, and he very much wished he had gone  with them. He wasn't the sort of man who could enjoy talking to Ramandu and  Ramandu's daughter (nor they to him), and it rained a good deal, and though there was a  wonderful feast on the Table every night, he didn't very much enjoy it. He said it gave  him the creeps sitting there alone (and in the rain as likely as not) with those four Lords  asleep at the end of the Table. And when the others returned he felt so out of things that  he deserted on the voyage home at the Lone Islands, and went and lived in Calormen,  where he told wonderful stories about his adventures at the End of the World, until at last  he came to believe them himself. So you may say, in a sense, that he lived happily ever  after. But he could never bear mice. 
That night they all ate and drank together at the great table between the pillars where the  feast was magically renewed: and next morning the Dawn Treader set sail once more just  when the great birds had come and gone again. 
"Lady," said Caspian, "I hope to speak with you again when I have broken the  enchantments." And Ramandu's daughter looked at him and smiled. 
 
 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN 
THE WONDERS OF THE LAST SEA 
VERY soon after they had left Ramandu's country they began to feel that they had  already sailed beyond the world. All was different. For one thing they all found that they  were needing less sleep. One did not want to go to bed. nor to eat much, nor even to talk  except in low voices. Another thing was the light. There was too much of it. The sun  when it came up each morning looked twice, if not; three times, its usual size. And every  morning (which gave Lucy the strangest feeling of all) the huge white birds, singing their  song with human voices in a language no one knew, streamed overhead and vanished  astern on their way to their breakfast at Aslan's Table. A little later they came flying back  and vanished into the east. 
"How beautifully clear the water is!" said Lucy to herself, as she leaned over the port side  early in the afternoon of the second day. 
 
 And it was. The first thing that she noticed was a little black object, about the size of a  shoe, travelling along at the same speed as the ship. For a moment she thought it was  something floating on the surface. But then there came floating past a bit of stale bread  which the cook had just thrown out of the galley. And the bit of bread looked as if it were  going to collide with the black thing, but it didn't. It passed above it, and Lucy now saw  that the black thing could not be on the surface. Then the black thing suddenly got very  much bigger and flicked back to normal size a moment later. 
Now Lucy knew she had seen something just like that happen somewhere else - if only  she could remember where. She held her hand to her head and screwed up her face and  put out her tongue in the effort to remember. At last she did. Of course! It was like what  you saw from a train on a bright sunny day. You saw the black shadow of your own  coach running along the fields at the same pace as the train. Then you went into a cutting;  and immediately the same shadow flicked close up to you and got big, racing :long the  grass of the cutting-bank. Then you came out of the cutting and - Pick! - once more the  black shadow had gone back to its normal size and was running along the fields. 
"It's our shadow! - the shadow of the Dawn Treader," said Lucy. "Our shadow running  along on the bottom of the sea. That time when it got bigger it went over a hill. But in  that case the water must be clearer than I thought! Good gracious, I must he seeing the  bottom of the sea; fathoms and fathoms down." 
As soon as she had said this she realized that the great silvery expanse which she had  been seeing (without noticing) for some time was really the sand on the sea-bed and that  ail sorts of darker or brighter patches were not lights and shadows on the surface but real  things on the bottom. At present, for instance, they were passing over a mass of soft  purply green with a broad, winding strip of pale grey in the middle of it But now that she  knew it was on the bottom she saw it much better. She could see that bits of the dark stuff  were much higher than other bits and were waving gently. "Just like trees in a wind," said  Lucy. "And do believe that's what they are. It's a submarine forest." 
They passed on above it and presently the pale streak was joined by another pale streak.  "If I was down there," thought Lucy, "that streak would be just like a road through the  wood. And that place where it joins the other Would be a crossroads. Oh, I do wish I was.  Hallo! the forest is coming to an end. And I do believe the streak really was a road! I can  still see it going on across the open sand. It's a different colour. And it's marked out with  something at the edges - dotted lines. Perhaps they are stones. And now it's getting  wider." 
But it was not really getting wider, it was getting nearer. She realized this because of the  way in which the shadow of the ship came rushing up towards her. And the road she felt  sure it was a road now - began to go in zigzags. Obviously it was climbing up a steep hill.  And when she held her head sideways and looked back, what she saw was very like what  you see when you look down a winding road from the top of a hill. She could even see  the shafts of sunlight falling through the deep water on to the wooded valley - and, in the 
 
 extreme distance, everything melting away into a dim greenness. But some places - the  sunny ones, she thought - were ultramarine blue. 
She could not, however, spend much time looking back; what was coming into view in  the forward direction was too exciting. The road had apparently now reached the top of  the hill and ran straight forward. Little specks were moving to and fro on it. And now  something most wonderful, fortunately in full sunlight - or as full as it can be when it  falls through fathoms of water - flashed into sight. It was knobbly and jagged and of a  pearly, or perhaps an ivory, colour. She was so nearly straight above it that at first she  could hardly make out what it was. But everything became plain when she noticed its  shadow. The sunlight was falling across Lucy's shoulders, so the shadow of the thing lay  stretched out on the sand behind it. And by its shape she saw clearly that it was a shadow  of towers and pinnacles, minarets and domes. 
"Why! - it's a city or a huge castle," said Lucy to herself "But I wonder why they've built  it on top of a high mountain?" 
Long afterwards when she was back in England and talked all these adventures over with  Edmund, they thought of a reason and I am pretty sure it is the true one. In the sea, the  deeper you go, the darker and colder it gets, and it is down there, in the dark and cold,  that dangerous things live - the squid and the Sea Serpent and the Kraken. The valleys are  the wild, unfriendly places. The sea-people feel about their valleys as we do about  mountains, and feel about their mountains as we feel about valleys. It is on the heights  (or, as we would say, "in the shallows") that there is warmth and peace. The reckless  hunters and brave knights of the sea go down into the depths on quests and adventures,  but return home to the heights for rest and peace, courtesy and council, the sports, the  dances and the songs. 
They had passed the city and the sea-bed was still rising. It was only a few hundred feet  below the ship now. The road had disappeared. They were sailing above an open park- like country, dotted with little groves of brightlycoloured vegetation. And then - Lucy  nearly squealed aloud with excitement-she had seen People. 
There were between fifteen and twenty of them, and all mounted on sea-horses - not the  tiny little sea-horses which you may have seen in museums but horses rather bigger than  themselves. They must be noble and lordly people, Lucy thought, for she could catch the  gleam of gold on some of their foreheads and streamers of emerald- or orange-coloured  stuff fluttered from their shoulders in the current. Then: 
"Oh, bother these fish!" said Lucy, for a whole shoal of small fat fish, swimming quite  close to the surface, had come between her and the Sea People. But though this spoiled  her view it led to the most interesting thing of all. 
Suddenly a fierce little fish of a kind she had never seen before came darting up from  below, snapped, grabbed, and sank rapidly with one of the fat fish in its mouth. And all  the Sea People were sitting on their horses staring up at what had happened. They seemed 
 
 to be talking and laughing. And before the hunting fish had got back to them with its  prey, another of the same kind came up from the Sea People. And Lucy was almost  certain that one big Sea Man who sat on his sea-horse in the middle of the party had sent  it or released it; as if he had been holdng it back till then in his hand or on his wrist. 
"Why, I do declare," said Lucy, "it's a hunting party. Or more like a hawking party. Yes,  that's it. They ride out with these little fierce fish on their wrists just as we used to ride  out with falcons on our wrists when we were Kings and Queens at Cair Paravel long ago.  And then they fly them - or I suppose I should say swim them - at the others." 
She stopped suddenly because the scene was changing. The Sea People had noticed the  Dawn Treader. The shoal of fish hard scattered in every direction: the People themselves  were coming up to find out the meaning of this big, black thing which had come between  them and the sun. And now they were so close to the surface that if they had been in air,  instead of water, Lucy could have spoken to them. There were men and women both. All  wore coronets of some kind and many had chains of pearls. They wore no other clothes.  Their bodies were the colour of old ivory, their hair dark purple. The King in the centre  (no one could mistake him for anything but the King) looked proudly and fiercely into  Lucy's face and shook a spear in his hand. His knights did the same. The faces of the  ladies were filled with astonishment. Lucy felt sure they had never seen a ship or a  human before - and how should they, in seas beyond the world's end where no ship ever  came? 
"What are you staring at, Lu?" said a voice close beside her. 
Lucy had been so absorbed in what she was seeing that she started at the sound, and when  she turned she found that her arm had gone "dead" from leaning so long on the rail in one  position. Drinian and Edmund were beside her. 
"Look," she said. 
They both looked, but almost at once Drinian said in a low voice: 
"Turn round at once, your Majesties - that's right, with our backs to the sea. And don't  look as if we were talking about anything important." 
"Why, what's the matter?" said Lucy as she obeyed. 
"It'll never do for the sailors to see all that," said Drinian. "We'll have men falling in love  with a seawoman, or falling in love with the under-sea country itself, and jumping  overboard. I've heard of that kind of thing happening before in strange seas. It's always  unlucky to see these people." 
"But we used to know them," said Lucy. "In the old days at Cair Paravel when my  brother Peter was High King. They came to the surface and sang at our coronation." 
 
 "I think that must have been a different kind, Lu," said Edmund. "They could live in the  air as well as under water. I rather think these can't. By the look of them they'd have  surfaced and started attacking us long ago if they could. They seem very fierce." 
"At any rate," said Drinian, but at that moment two sounds were heard. One was a plop.  The other was a voice from the fighting top shouting, "Man overboard!" Then everyone  was busy. Some of the sailors hurried aloft to take in the sail: others hurried below to get  to the oars; and Rhince, who was on duty on the poop, began to put the helm hard over so  as to come round and back to the man who had gone overboard. But by now everyone  knew that it wasn't strictly a man. It was Reepicheep. 
"Drat that mouse!" said Drinian. "It's more trouble than all the rest of the ship's company  put together. If there is any scrape to be got into, in it will get! It ought to be put in irons -  keel-hauled - marooned - have its whiskers cut off. Can anyone see the little blighter?" 
All this didn't mean that Drinian really disliked Reepicheep. On the contrary he liked him  very much and was therefore frightened about him, and being frightened put him in a bad  temper - just as your mother is much angrier with you for running out into the road in  front of a car than a stranger would be. No one, of course, was afraid of Reepicheep's  drowning, for he was an excellent swimmer; but the three who knew what was going on  below the water were afraid of those long, cruel spears in the hands of the Sea People. 
In a few minutes the Dawn Treader had come round and everyone could see the black  blob in the water which was Reepicheep. He was chattering with the greatest excitement  but as his mouth kept on getting filled with water nobody could understand what he was  saying. 
"He'll blurt the whole thing out if we don't shut him up," cried Drinian. To prevent this he  rushed to the side and lowered a rope himself, shouting to the sailors, "All right, all right.  Back to your places. I hope I can heave a mouse up without help." And as Reepicheep  began climbing up the rope not very nimbly because his wet fur made him heavy -  Drinian leaned over and whispered to him, 
"Don't tell. Not a word." 
But when the dripping Mouse had reached the deck it turned out not to be at all interested  in the Sea People. 
"Sweet!" he cheeped. "Sweet, sweet!" 
"What are you talking about?" asked Drinian crossly. "And you needn't shake yourself all  over me, either." 
"I tell you the water's sweet," said the Mouse. "Sweet, fresh. It isn't salt." 
 
 For a moment no one quite took in the importance of this. But then Reepicheep once  more repeated the old prophecy: 
"Where the waves grow sweet, Doubt not, Reepicheep, There is the utter East." 
Then at last everyone understood. 
"Let me have a bucket, Rynelf," said Drinian. 
It was handed him and he lowered it and up it came again. The water shone in it like  glass. 
"Perhaps your Majesty would like to taste it first," said Drinian to Caspian. 
The King took the bucket in both hands, raised it to his lips, sipped, then drank deeply  and raised his head. His face was changed. Not only his eyes but everything about him  seemed to be brighter. 
"Yes," he said, "it is sweet. That's real water, that. I'm not sure that it isn't going to kill  me. But it is the death I would have chosen - if I'd known about it till now." 
"What do you mean?" asked Edmund. 
"It - it's like light more than anything else," said Caspian. 
"That is what it is," said Reepicheep. "Drinkable light. We must be very near the end of  the world now." 
There was a moment's silence and then Lucy knelt down on the deck and drank from the  bucket. 
"It's the loveliest thing I have ever tasted," she said with a kind of gasp. "But oh - it's  strong. We shan't need to eat anything now." 
And one by one everybody on board drank. And for a long time they were all silent. They  felt almost too well and strong to bear it; and presently they began to notice another  result. As I have said before, there had been too much light ever since they left the island  of Ramandu - the sun too large (though not too hot), the sea too bright, the air too  shining. Now, the light grew no less - if anything, it increased - but they could bear it.  They could look straight up at the sun without blinking. They could see more light than  they had ever seen before. And the deck and the sail and their own faces and bodies  became brighter and brighter and every rope shone. And next morning, when the sun  rose, now five or six times its old size, they stared hard into it and could see the very  feathers of the birds that came flying from it. 
 
 Hardly a word was spoken on board all that day, till about dinner-time (no one wanted  any dinner, the water was enough for them) Drinian said: 
"I can't understand this. There is not a breath of wind. The sail hangs dead. The sea is as  flat as a pond. And yet we drive on as fast as if there were a gale behind us." 
"I've been thinking that, too," said Caspian. "We must be caught in some strong current." 
"H'm," said Edmund. "That's not so nice if the World really has an edge and we're getting  near it." 
"You mean," said Caspian, "that we might be just well, poured over it?" 
"Yes, yes," cried Reepicheep, clapping his paws together. "That's how I've always  imagined it - the World like a great round table and the waters of all the oceans endlessly  pouring over the edge. The ship will tip up stand on her head - for one moment we shall  see over the edge - and then, down, down, the rush, the speed -" 
"And what do you think will be waiting for us at the bottom, eh?" said Drinian. 
"Aslan's country perhaps," said the Mouse, its eyes shining. "Or perhaps there isn't any  bottom. Perhaps it goes down for ever and ever. But whatever it is, won't it be worth  anything just to have looked for one moment beyond the edge of the world." 
"But look -here," said Eustace, "this is all rot. The world's round - I mean, round like a  ball, not like a table." 
"Our world is," said Edmund. "But is this?" 
"Do you mean to say," asked Caspian, "that you three come from a round world (round  like a ball) and you've never told me! It's really too bad of you. Because we have fairy- tales in which there are round worlds and I always loved them. I never believed there  were any real ones. But I've always wished there were and I've always longed to live in  one. Oh, I'd give anything - I wonder why you can get into our world and we never get  into yours? If only I had the chance! It must be exciting to live on a thing like a ball.  Have you ever been to the parts where people walk about upside-down?" 
Edmund shook his head. "And it isn't like that," he added. "There's nothing particularly  exciting about a round world when you're there. 
 
 
CHAPTER SIXTEEN 
THE VERY END OF THE WORLD 
 
  
REEPICHEEP was the only person on board besides Drinian and the two Pevensies who  had noticed the Sea People. He had dived in at once when he saw the Sea King shaking  his spear, for he regarded this as a sort of threat or challenge and wanted to have the  matter out there and then. The excitement of discovering that the water was now fresh  had distracted his attention, and before he remembered the Sea People again Lucy and  Drinian had taken him aside and warned him not to mention what he had seen. 
As things turned out they need hardly have bothered, for by this time the Dawn Treader  was gliding over a part of the sea which seemed to be uninhabited. No one except Lucy  saw anything more of the People, and even she had only one short glimpse. All morning  on the following day they sailed in fairly shallow water and the bottom was weedy. Just  before midday Lucy saw a large shoal of fishes grazing on the weed. They were all eating  steadily and all moving in the same direction. "Just like a flock of sheep," thought Lucy.  Suddenly she saw a little Sea Girl of about her own age in the middle of them - a quiet,  lonely-looking girl with a sort of crook in her hand. Lucy felt sure that this girl must be a  shepherdess - or perhaps a fish-herdess and that the shoal was really a flock at pasture.  Both the fishes and the girl were quite close to the surface. And just as the girl, gliding in  the shallow water, and Lucy, leaning over the bulwark, came opposite to one another, the  girl looked up and stared straight into Lucy's face. Neither could speak to the other and in  a moment the Sea Girl dropped astern. But Lucy will never forget her face. It did not look  frightened or angry like those of the other Sea People. Lucy had liked that girl and she  felt certain the girl had liked her. In that one moment they had somehow become friends.  There does not seem to be much chance of their meeting again in that world or any other.  But if ever they do they will rush together with their hands held out. 
After that for many days, without wind in her shrouds or foam at her bows, across a  waveless sea, the Dawn Treader glided smoothly east. Every day and every hour the light  became more brilliant and still they could bear it. No one ate or slept and no one wanted  to, but they drew buckets of dazzling water from the sea, stronger than wine and  somehow wetter, more liquid, than ordinary water, and pledged one another silently in  deep draughts of it. And one or two of the sailors who had been oldish men when the  voyage began now grew younger every day. Everyone on board was filled with joy and  excitement, but not an excitement that made one talk. The further they sailed the less they  spoke, and then almost in a whisper. The stillness of that last sea laid hold on them. 
"My Lord," said Caspian to Drinian one day, "what do you see ahead?" 
"Sire," said Drinian, "I see whiteness. All along the horizon from north to south, as far as  my eyes can reach." 
"That is what I see too," said Caspian, "and I cannot imagine what it is." 
"If we were in higher latitudes, your Majesty," said Drinian, "I would say it was ice. But  it can't be that; not here. All the same, we'd better get men to the oars and hold the ship 
 
 back against the current. Whatever the stuff is, we don't want to crash into it at this  speed!" 
They did as Drinian said, and so continued to go slower and slower. The whiteness did  not get any less mysterious as they- approached it. If it was land it must be a very strange  land, for it seemed just as smooth as the water and on the same level with it. When they  got very close to it Drinian put the helm hard over and turned the Dawn Treader south so  that she was broadside on to the current and rowed a little way southward along the edge  of the whiteness. In so doing they accidentally made the important discovery that the  current was only about forty feet wide and the rest of the sea as still as a pond. This was  good news for the crew, who had already begun to think that the return journey to  Ramandu's land, rowing against stream all the way, would be pretty poor sport. (It also  explained why the shepherd girl had dropped so quickly astern. She was not in the  current. If she had been she would have been moving east at the same speed as the ship.) 
And still no one could make out what the white stuff was. Then the boat was lowered and  it put off to investigate. Those who remained on the Dawn Treader could see that the boat  pushed right in amidst the whiteness. Then they could hear the voices of the party in the  boat clear across the still water) talking in a shrill and surprised way. Then there was a  pause while Rynelf in the bows of the boat took a sounding; and when, after that, the boat  came rowing back there seemed to be plenty of the white stuff inside her. Everyone  crowded to the side to hear the news. 
"Lilies, your Majesty!" shouted Rynelf, standing up in the bows. 
"What did you say?" asked Caspian. 
"Blooming lilies, your Majesty," said Rynelf. "Same as in a pool or in a garden at home." 
"Look!" said Lucy, who was in the stern of the boat. She held up her wet arms full of  white petals and broad flat leaves. 
"What's the depth, Rynelf?" asked Drinian. 
"That's the funny thing, Captain," said Rynelf. "It's still deep. Three and a half fathoms  clear." 
"They can't be real lilies - not what we call lilies," said Eustace. 
Probably they were not, but they were very like them. And when, after some consultation,  the Dawn Treader turned back into the current and began to glide eastward through the  Lily Lake or the Silver Sea (they tried both these names but it was the Silver Sea that  stuck and is now on Caspian's map) the strangest part of their travels began. Very soon  the open sea which they were leaving was only a thin rim of blue on the western horizon.  Whiteness, shot with faintest colour of gold, spread round them on every side, except just  astern where their passage had thrust the lilies apart and left an open lane of water that 
 
 shone like dark green glass. To look at, this last sea was very like the Arctic; and if their  eyes had not by now grown as strong as eagles' the sun on all that whiteness - especially  at early morning when the sun was hugest would have been unbearable. And every  evening the same whiteness made the daylight last longer. There seemed no end to the  lilies. Day after day from all those miles and leagues of flowers there rose a smell which  Lucy found it very hard to describe; sweet - yes, but not at all sleepy or overpowering, a  fresh, wild, lonely smell that seemed to get into your brain and make you feel that you  could go up mountains at a run or wrestle with an elephant. She and Caspian said to one  another, "I feel that I can't stand much more of this, yet I don't want it to stop." 
They took soundings very often but it was only several days later that the water became  shallower. After that it went on getting shallower. There came a day when they had to  row out of the current and feel their way forward at a snail's pace, rowing. And soon it  was clear that the Dawn Treader could sail no further east. Indeed it was only by very  clever handling that they saved her from grounding. 
"Lower the boat," cried Caspian, "and then call the men aft. I must speak to them." 
"What's he going to do?" whispered Eustace to Edmund. "There's a queer look in his  eyes." 
"I think we probably all look the same," said Edmund. 
They joined Caspian on the poop and soon all the men were crowded together at the foot  of the ladder to hear the King's speech. "Friends," said Caspian, "we have now fulfilled  the quest on which you embarked. The seven lords are all accounted for and as Sir  Reepicheep has sworn never to return, when you reach Ramandu's Land you will  doubtless find the Lords Revilian and Argoz and Mavramorn awake. To you, my Lord  Drinian, I entrust this ship, bidding you sail to Narnia with all the speed you may, and  above all not to land on the Island of Deathwater. And instruct my regent, the Dwarf  Trumpkin, to give to all these, my shipmates, the rewards I promised them. They have  been earned well. And if I come not again it is my will that the Regent, and Master  Cornelius, and Trufflehunter the Badger, and the Lord Drinian choose a King of Narnia  with the consent-" 
"But, Sire," interrupted Drinian, "are you abdicating?" 
"I am going with Reepicheep to see the World's End," said Caspian. 
A low murmur of dismay ran through the sailors. 
"We will take the boat," said Caspian. "You will have no need of it in these gentle seas  and you must build a new one in Ramandu's island. And now-" 
"Caspian," said Edmund suddenly and sternly, "you can't do this." 
 
 "Most certainly," said Reepicheep, "his Majesty cannot." 
"No indeed," said Drinian. 
"Can't?" said Caspian sharply, looking for a moment not unlike his uncle Miraz. 
"Begging your Majesty's pardon," said Rynelf from the deck below, "but if one of us did  the same it would be called deserting." 
"You presume too much on your long service, Rynelf," said Caspian. 
"No, Sire! He's perfectly right," said Drinian. 
"By the Mane of Aslan," said Caspian, "I had thought you were all my subjects here, not  my schoolmasters." 
"I'm not," said Edmund, "and I say you can not do this." 
"Can't again," said Caspian. "What do you mean?" 
"If it please your Majesty, we mean shall not," said Reepicheep with a very low bow.  "You are the King of Narnia. You break faith with all your subjects, and especially with  Trumpkin, if you do not return. You shall not please yourself with adventures as if you  were a private person. And if your Majesty will not hear reason it will be the truest  loyalty of every man on board to follow me in disarming and binding you till you come  to your senses." 
"Quite right," said Edmund. "Like they did with Ulysses when he wanted to go near the  Sirens." 
Caspian's hand had gone to his sword hilt, when Lucy said, "And you've almost promised  Ramandu's daughter to go back." 
Caspian paused. "Well, yes. There is that," he said. He stood irresolute for a moment and  then shouted out to the ship in general. 
"Well, have your way. The quest is ended. We all return. Get the boat up again." 
"Sire," said Reepicheep, "we do not all return. I, as I explained before -" 
"Silence!" thundered Caspian. "I've been lessoned but I'll not be baited. Will no one  silence that Mouse?" 
"Your Majesty promised," said Reepicheep, "to be good lord to the Talking Beasts of  Narnia." 
 
 "Talking beasts, yes," said Caspian. "I said nothing about beasts that never stop talking."  And he flung down the ladder in a temper and went into the cabin, slamming the door. 
But when the others rejoined him a little later they found him changed; he was white and  there were tears in his eyes. 
"It's no good," he said. "I might as well have behaved decently for all the good I did with  my temper and swagger. Aslan has spoken to me. No - I don't mean he was actually here.  He wouldn't fit into the cabin, for one thing. But that gold lion's head on the wall came to  life and spoke to me. It was terrible his eyes. Not that he was at all rough with me - only a  bit stern at first. But it was terrible all the same. And he said - he said - oh, I can't bear it.  The worst thing he could have said. You're to go on - Reep and Edmund, and Lucy, and  Eustace; and I'm to go back. Alone. And at once. And what is the good of anything?" 
"Caspian, dear," said Lucy. "You knew we'd have to go back to our own world sooner or  later." 
"Yes," said Caspian with a sob, "but this is sooner." 
"You'll feel better when you get back to Ramandu's Island," said Lucy. 
He cheered up a little later on, but it was a grievous parting oo both sides and I will not  dwell on it. About two o'clock in the afternoon, well victualled and watered (though they  thought they would need neither food nor drink) and with Reepicheep's coracle on board,  the boat pulled away from the Dawn Treader to row through the endless carpet of lilies.  The Dawn Trader flew all her flags and hung out her shields to honour their departure.  Tall and big and homelike she looked from their low position with the lilies all round  them. And before she was out of sight they saw her turn and begin rowing slowly  westward. Yet though Lucy shed a few tears, she could not feel it as much as you might  have expected. The light, the silence, the tingling smell of the Silver Sea, even (in some  odd way) the loneliness itself, were too exciting. 
There was no need to row, for the current drifted them steadily to the east. None of them  slept or ate. All that night and all next day they glided eastward, and when the third day  dawned - with a brightness you or I could not bear even if we had dark glasses on - they  saw a wonder ahead. It was as if a wall stood up between them and the sky, a greenish- grey, trembling, shimmering wall. Then up came the sun, and at its first rising they saw it  through the wall and it turned into wonderful rainbow colours. Then they knew that the  wall was really a long, tall wave - a wave endlessly fixed in one place as you may often  see at the edge of a waterfall. It seemed to be about thirty feet high, and the current was  gliding them swiftly towards it. You might have supposed they would have thought of  their danger. They didn't. I don't think anyone could have in their position. For now they  saw something not only behind the wave but behind the sun. They could not have seen  even the sun if their eyes had not been strengthened by the water of the Last Sea. But  now they could look at the rising sun and see it clearly and see things beyond it. What  they saw - eastward, beyond the sun - was a range of mountains. It was so high that either 
 
 they never saw the top of it or they forgot it. None of them remembers seeing any sky in  that direction. And the mountains must really have been outside the world. For any  mountains even a quarter of a twentieth of that height ought to have had ice and snow on  them. But these were warm and green and full, of forests and waterfalls however high  you looked. And suddenly there came a breeze from the east, tossing the top of the wave  into foamy shapes and ruffling the smooth water all round them. It lasted only a second  or so but what it brought them in that second none of those three children will ever forget.  It brought both a smell and a sound, a musical sound Edmund and Eustace would never  talk about it afterwards. Lucy could only say, "It would break your heart." "Why," said I,  "was it so sad: " "Sad!! No," said Lucy. 
No one in that boat doubted chat they were seeing beyond the End of the World into  Aslan's country. 
At that moment, with a crunch, the boat ran aground. The water was too shallow now for  it. "This," said Reepicheep, "is where I go on alone." 
They did not even try to stop dim, for everything now felt as if it had been fated or had  happened before. They helped him to lower his little coracle. Then he took off his sword  ("I shall need it no more," he said) and flung it far away across the Idled sea. Where it fell  it stood upright with the hilt above the surface. Then he bade them goodbye trying to be  sad for their sakes but he was quivering with happiness. Lucy, for the first and last time,  did what she had always wanted to do, taking him in her arms and caressing him. Then  hastily he got into his coracle and took his paddle, and the current caught it and away he  went, very black against the lilies. But no lilies grew on the wave; it was a smooth green  slope. The coracle went more and more quickly, and beautifully it rushed up the wave's  side. For one split second they saw its shape and Reepicheep's on the very top. Then it  vanished, and since that moment no one can truly claim to have seen Reepicheep the  Mouse. But my belief is that he came safe to Aslan's country and is alive there to this  day. 
As the sun rose the sight of those mountains outside the world faded away. The wave  remained but there was only blue sky behind it. 
The children got out of the boat and waded - not towards the wave but southward with  the wall of water on their left. They could not have told you why they did this; it was  their fate. And though they had felt - and been very grown-up on the Dawn Treader, they  now felt just the opposite and held hands as they waded through the lilies. They never felt  tired. The water was warm and all the time it got shallower. At last they were on dry  sand, and then on grass - a huge plain of very fine short grass, almost level with the Silver  Sea and spreading in every direction without so much as a molehill. 
And of course, as it always does in a perfectly flat place without trees, it looked as if the  sky came down to meet the grass in front of them. But as they went on they got the  strangest impression that here at last the sky did really come down and join the earth - a 
 
 blue wall, very bright, but real and solid: more like glass than anything else. And soon  they were quite sure of it. It was very near now. 
But between them and the foot of the sky there was something so white on the green  grass that even with their eagles' eyes they could hardly look at it. They came on and saw  that it was a Lamb. 
"Come and have breakfast," said the Lamb in its sweet milky voice. 
Then they noticed for the first time that there was a fire lit on the grass and fish roasting  on it. They sat down and ate the fish, hungry now for the first time for many days. And it  was the most delicious food they had ever tasted. 
"Please, Lamb," said Lucy, "is this the way to Aslan's country?" 
"Not for you," said the Lamb. "For you the door into Aslan's country is from your own  world." 
"What!" said Edmund. "Is there a way into Aslan's country from our world too?" 
"There is a way into my country from all the worlds," said the Lamb; but as he spoke his  snowy white flushed into tawny gold and his size changed and he was Aslan himself,  towering above them and scattering light from his mane. 
"Oh, Aslan," said Lucy. "Will you tell us how to get into your country from our world?" 
"I shall be telling you all the time," said Aslan. "But I will not tell you how long or short  the way will be; only that it lies across a river. But do not fear that, for I am the great  Bridge Builder. And now come; I will open the door in the sky and send you to your own  land." 
"Please, Aslan," said Lucy. "Before we go, will you tell us when we can come back to  Narnia again? Please. And oh, do, do, do make it soon." ' 
"Dearest," said Aslan very gently, "you and your brother will never come balk to Narnia." 
"Oh, Aslan!!" said Edmund and Lucy both together in despairing voices. 
"You are too old, children," said Aslan, "and you must begin to come close to your own  world now." 
"It isn't Narnia, you know," sobbed Lucy. "It's you. We shan't meet you there. And how  can we live, never meeting you?" 
"But you shall meet me, dear one," said Aslan. 
 
 "Are are you there too, Sir?" said Edmund. 
"I am," said Aslan. "But there I have another name. You must learn to know me by that  name. This was the very reason why you were brought to Narnia, that by knowing me  here for a little, you may know me better there." 
"And is Eustace never to come back here either?" said Lucy. 
"Child," said Aslan, "do you really need to know that? Come, I am opening the door in  the sky." Then all in one moment there was a rending of the blue wall (like a curtain  being torn) and a terrible white light from beyond the sky, and the feel of Aslan's mane  and a Lion's kiss on their foreheads and then - the bark bedroom in Aunt Alberta's home  in Cambridge. 
Only two more things need to be told. One is that Caspian and his men all came safely  back to Ramandu's Island. And the three lords woke from their sleep. Caspian married  Ramandu's daughter and they all reached Narnia in the end, and she became a great queen  and the mother and grandmother of great kings. The other is that back in our own world  everyone soon started saying how Eustace had improved, and how "You'd never know  him for the same boy": everyone except Aunt Alberta, who said he had become very  commonplace and tiresome and it must have been the influence of those Pevensie  children.   
