CHAPTER ONE   
OWL POST   
Harry Potter was a highly unusual boy in many ways. For one thing, he  hated the summer holidays more than any other time of year. For another,  he really wanted to do his homework but was forced to do it in secret,  in the dead of night. And he also happened to be a wizard.   
It was nearly midnight, and he was lying on his stomach in bed, the  blankets drawn right over his head like a tent, a flashlight in one hand  and a large leather-bound book (A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot)  propped open against the pillow. Harry moved the tip of his  eagle-feather quill down the page, frowning as he looked for something  that would help him write his essay, "Witch Burning in the Fourteenth  Century Was Completely Pointless discuss."   
The quill paused at the top of a likely-looking paragraph. Harry Pushed  his round glasses up the bridge of his nose, moved his flashlight closer  to the book, and read:   
Non-magic people (more commonly known as Muggles) were particularly  afraid of magic in medieval times, but not very good at recognizing it.  On the rare occasion that they did catch a real witch or wizard, burning  had no effect whatsoever. The witch or wizard would perform a basic  Flame Freezing Charm and then pretend to shriek with pain while enjoying  a gentle, tickling sensation. Indeed, Wendelin the Weird enjoyed being  burned so much that she allowed herself to be caught no less than  fortyseven times in various disguises.   
Harry put his quill between his teeth and reached underneath his pillow  for his ink bottle and a roll of parchment. Slowly and very carefully he  unscrewed the ink bottle, dipped his quill into it, and began to write,  pausing every now and then to listen, because if any of the Dursleys  heard the scratching of his quill on their way to the bathroom, he'd  probably find himself locked in the cupboard under the stairs for the  rest of the summer.   
The Dursley family of number four, Privet Drive, was the reason that  Harry never enjoyed his summer holidays. Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and   
1   
  
 their son, Dudley, were Harry's only living relatives. They were  Muggles, and they had a very medieval attitude toward magic. Harry's  dead parents, who had been a witch and wizard themselves, were never  mentioned under the Dursleys' roof For years, Aunt Petunia and Uncle  Vernon had hoped that if they kept Harry as downtrodden as possible,  they would be able to squash the magic out of him. To their fury, they  had been unsuccessful. These days they lived in terror of anyone finding  out that Harry had spent most of the last two years at Hogwarts School  of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The most they could do, however, was to lock  away Harry's spellbooks, wand, cauldron, and broomstick at the start of  the summer break, and forbid him to talk to the neighbors.   
This separation from his spellbooks had been a real problem for Harry,  because his teachers at Hogwarts had given him a lot of holiday work.  One of the essays, a particularly nasty one about shrinking potions, was  for Harry's least favorite teacher, Professor Snape, who would be  delighted to have an excuse to give Harry detention for a month. Harry  had therefore seized his chance in the first week of the holidays. While  Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and Dudley had gone out into the front  garden to admire Uncle Vernon's new company car (in very loud voices, so  that the rest of the street would notice it too), Harry had crept  downstairs, picked the lock on the cupboard under the stairs, grabbed  some of his books, and hidden them in his bedroom. As long as he didn't  leave spots of ink on the sheets, the Dursleys need never know that he  was studying magic by night.   
Harry was particularly keen to avoid trouble with his aunt and uncle at  the moment, as they were already in an especially bad mood with him, all  because he'd received a telephone call from a fellow wizard one week  into the school vacation.   
Ron Weasley, who was one of Harry's best friends at Hogwarts, came from  a whole family of wizards. This meant that he knew a lot of things Harry  didn't, but had never used a telephone before. Most unluckily, it had  been Uncle Vernon who had answered the call.   
"Vernon Dursley speaking."   
Harry, who happened to be in the room at the time, froze as he heard  Ron's voice answer.   
2   
  
 "HELLO? HELLO? CAN YOU HEAR ME? I -- WANT -- TO -- TALK -- TO -HARRY  -- POTTER!"   
Ron was yelling so loudly that Uncle Vernon jumped and held the receiver  a foot away from his ear, staring at it with an expression of mingled  fury and alarm.   
"WHO IS THIS?" he roared in the direction of the mouthpiece. "WHO ARE  YOU?"   
"RON -- WEASLEY!" Ron bellowed back, as though he and Uncle Vernon were  speaking from opposite ends of a football field. "I'M -- A -- FRIEND -OF  -- HARRY'S -- FROM -- SCHOOL --"   
Uncle Vernon's small eyes swiveled around to Harry, who was rooted to  the spot.   
"THERE IS NO HARRY POTTER HERE!" he roared, now holding the receiver  at  arm's length, as though frightened it might explode. "I DON'T KNOW WHAT  SCHOOL YOURE TALKING ABOUT! NEVER CONTACT ME AGAIN!  DON'T YOU COME NEAR  MY FAMILY!"   
And he threw the receiver back onto the telephone as if dropping a  poisonous spider.   
The fight that had followed had been one of the worst ever.   
"HOW DARE YOU GIVE THIS NUMBER TO PEOPLE LIKE -- PEOPLE LIKE  YOU!" Uncle  Vernon had roared, spraying Harry with spit.   
Ron obviously realized that he'd gotten Harry into trouble, because he  hadn't called again. Harry's other best friend from Hogwarts, Hermione  Granger, hadn't been in touch either. Harry suspected that Ron had  warned Hermione not to call, which was a pity, because Hermione, the  cleverest witch in Harry's year, had Muggle parents, knew perfectly well   
3   
  
 how to use a telephone, and would probably have had enough sense not to  say that she went to Hogwarts.   
So Harry had had no word from any of his wizarding friends for five long  weeks, and this summer was turning out to be almost as bad as the last  one. There was just one very small improvement -- after swearing that he  wouldn't use her to send letters to any of his friends, Harry had been  allowed to let his owl, Hedwig, out at night. Uncle Vernon had given in  because of the racket Hedwig made if she was locked in her cage all the  time.   
Harry finished writing about Wendelin the Weird and paused to listen  again. The silence in the dark house was broken only by the distant,  grunting snores of his enormous cousin, Dudley. It must be very late,  Harry thought. His eyes were itching with tiredness. Perhaps he'd finish  this essay tomorrow night....   
He replaced the top of the ink bottle; pulled an old pillowcase from  under his bed; put the flashlight, A History of Magic, his essay, quill,  and ink inside it; got out of bed; and hid the lot under a loose  floorboard under his bed. Then he stood up, stretched, and checked the  time on the luminous alarm clock on his bedside table.   
It was one o'clock in the morning. Harry's stomach gave a funny jolt. He  had been thirteen years old, without realizing it, for a whole hour.   
Yet another unusual thing about Harry was how little he looked forward  to his birthdays. He had never received a birthday card in his life. The  Dursleys had completely ignored his last two birthdays, and he had no  reason to suppose they would remember this one.   
Harry walked across the dark room, past Hedwig's large, empty cage, to  the open window. He leaned on the sill, the cool night air pleasant on  his face after a long time under the blankets. Hedwig had been absent  for two nights now. Harry wasn't worried about her: she'd been gone this  long before. But he hoped she'd be back soon -- she was the only living  creature in this house who didn't flinch at the sight of him.   
Harry, though still rather small and skinny for his age, had grown a few  inches over the last year. His jet-black hair, however, was just as it   
4   
  
 always had been -- stubbornly untidy, whatever he did to it. The eyes  behind his glasses were bright green, and on his forehead, clearly  visible through his hair, was a thin scar, shaped like a bolt of  lightning.   
Of all the unusual things about Harry, this scar was the most  extraordinary of all. It was not, as the Dursleys had pretended for ten  years, a souvenir of the car crash that had killed Harry's parents,  because Lily and James Potter had not died in a car crash. They had been  murdered, murdered by the most feared Dark wizard for a hundred years,  Lord Voldemort. Harry had escaped from the same attack with nothing more  than a scar on his forehead, where Voldemort's curse, instead of killing  him, had rebounded upon its originator. Barely alive, Voldemort had  fled....   
But Harry had come face-to-face with him at Hogwarts. Remembering their  last meeting as he stood at the dark window, Harry had to admit he was  lucky even to have reached his thirteenth birthday.   
He scanned the starry sky for a sign of Hedwig, perhaps soaring   
back to him with a dead mouse dangling from her beak, expecting praise.  Gazing absently over the rooftops, it was a few seconds before Harry  realized what he was seeing.   
Silhouetted against the golden moon, and growing larger every moment,  was a large, strangely lopsided creature, and it was flapping in Harry's  direction. He stood quite still, watching it sink lower and lower. For a  split second he hesitated, his hand on the window latch, wondering  whether to slam it shut. But then the bizarre creature soared over one  of the street lamps of Privet Drive, and Harry, realizing what it was,  leapt aside.   
Through the window soared three owls, two of them holding up the third,  which appeared to be unconscious. They landed with a soft flump on  Harry's bed, and the middle owl, which was large and gray, keeled right  over and lay motionless. There was a large package tied to its legs.   
Harry recognized the unconscious owl at once -- his name was Errol, and  he belonged to the Weasley family. Harry dashed to the bed, untied the   
5   
  
 cords around Errol's legs, took off the parcel, and then carried Errol  to Hedwig's cage. Errol opened one bleary eye, gave a feeble hoot of  thanks, and began to gulp some water.   
Harry turned back to the remaining owls. One of them, the large snowy  female, was his own Hedwig. She, too, was carrying a parcel and looked  extremely pleased with herself. She gave Harry an affectionate nip with  her beak as he removed her burden, then flew across the room to join  Errol.   
Harry didn't recognize the third owl, a handsome tawny one, but he knew  at once where it had come from, because in addition to a third package,  it was carrying a letter bearing the Hogwarts crest. When Harry relieved  this owl of its burden, it ruffled its feathers importantly, stretched  its wings, and took off through the window into the night.   
Harry sat down on his bed and grabbed Errol's package, ripped off the  brown paper, and discovered a present wrapped in gold, and his first  ever birthday card. Fingers trembling slightly, he opened the envelope.  Two pieces of paper fell out -- a letter and a newspaper clipping.   
The clipping had clearly come out of the wizarding newspaper, the Daily  Prophet, because the people in the black-and-white picture were moving.  Harry picked up the clipping, smoothed it out, and read:   
MINISTRY OF MAGIC EMPLOYEE SCOOPS GRAND PRIZE   
Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office at the  Ministry of Magic, has won the annual Daily Prophet Grand Prize Galleon  Draw.   
A delighted Mr. Weasley told the Daily Prophet, "We will be spending the  gold on a summer holiday in Egypt, where our eldest son, Bill, works as  a curse breaker for Gringotts Wizarding Bank."   
The Weasley family will be spending a month in Egypt, returning for the  start of the new school year at Hogwarts, which five of the Weasley  children currently attend.   
Harry scanned the moving photograph, and a grin spread across his face   
6   
  
 as he saw all nine of the Weasleys waving furiously at him, standing in  front of a large pyramid. Plump little Mrs. Weasley; tail, balding Mr.  Weasley; six sons; and one daughter, all (though the black-and-white  picture didn't show it) with flaming-red hair. Right in the middle of  the picture was Ron, tall and gangling, with his pet rat, Scabbers, on  his shoulder and his arm around his little sister, Ginny.   
Harry couldn't think of anyone who deserved to win a large pile of gold  more than the Weasleys, who were very nice and extremely poor. He picked  up Ron's letter and unfolded it.   
Dear Harry,   
Happy birthday!   
Look, I' really sorry about that telephone call. I hope the Muggles  didn't give you a hard time. I asked Dad, and he reckons I shouldn't  have shouted.   
It's amazing here in Egypt. Bill's taken us around all the tombs and you  wouldn't believe the curses those old Egyptian wizards put on them. Mum  wouldn't let Ginny come in the last one. There were all these mutant  skeletons in there, of Muggles who'd broken in and grown extra heads and  stuff.   
I couldn't believe it when Dad won the Daily Prophet Draw. Seven hundred  galleons! Most of it's gone on this trip, but they're going to buy me a  new wand for next year.   
Harry remembered only too well the occasion when Ron's old wand had  snapped. It had happened when the car the two of them had been flying to  Hogwarts had crashed into a tree on the school grounds.   
We'll be back about a week before term starts and we'll be going up to  London to get my wand and our new books. Any chance of meeting you  there?   
Don't let the Muggles get you down!   
Try and come to London,   
7   
  
 Ron   
P.S. Percy's Head Boy. He got the letter last week.  Harry glanced back at the photograph. Percy, who was in his seventh and  final year at Hogwarts, was looking particularly smug. He had pinned his  Head Boy badge to the fez perched jauntily on top of his neat hair, his  horn-rimmed glasses flashing in the Egyptian sun.   
Harry now turned to his present and unwrapped it. Inside was what looked  like a miniature glass spinning top. There was another note from Ron  beneath it.   
Harry -- this is a Pocket Sneakoscope. If there's someone untrustworthy  around, it's supposed to light up and spin. Bill says it's rubbish sold  for wizard tourists and isn't reliable, because it kept lighting up at  dinner last night. But he didn't realize Fred and George had put beetles  in his soup.   
Bye -  
 Ron   
Harry put the Pocket Sneakoscope on his bedside table, where it stood  quite still, balanced on its point, reflecting the luminous hands of his  clock. He looked at it happily for a few seconds, then picked up the  parcel Hedwig had brought.   
Inside this, too, there was a wrapped present, a card, and a letter,  this time from Hermione.   
Dear Harry,   
Ron wrote to me and told me about his phone call to your Uncle Vernon. I  do hope you're all right.   
I'm on holiday in France at the moment and I didn't know how I was going  to send this to you -- what if they'd opened it at customs? -- but then  Hedwig turned up! I think she wanted to make sure you got something for   
8   
  
 your birthday for a change. I bought your present by owl-order; there  was an advertisement in the Daily Prophet (I've been getting it  delivered; it's so good to keep up with what's going on in the wizarding  world), Did you see that picture of Ron and his family a week ago? I bet  he's learning loads. I'm really jealous -- the ancient Egyptian wizards  were fascinating.   
There's some interesting local history of witchcraft here, too. I've  rewritten my whole History of Magic essay to include some of the things  I've found out, I hope it's not too long -- it's two rolls of parchment  more than Professor Binns asked for.   
Ron says he's going to be in London in the last week of the holidays.  Can you make it? Will your aunt and uncle let you come? I really hope  you can. If not, I'll see you on the Hogwarts Express on September  first!   
Love from Hermione   
P.S. Ron says Percy's Head Boy. I'll bet Percy's really pleased Ron  doesn't seem too happy about it  Harry laughed as he put Herrmone's letter aside and picked up her  present. It was very heavy. Knowing Hermione, he was sure it would be a  large book full of very difficult spells -- but it wasn't. His heart  gave a huge bound as he ripped back the paper and saw a sleek black  leather case, with silver words stamped across it, reading Broomstick  Servicing Kit.   
"Wow, Hermione!" Harry whispered, unzipping the case to look inside.   
There was a large jar of Fleetwood's High-Finish Handle Polish, a pair  of gleaming silver Tall-Twig Clippers, a tiny brass compass to clip on  your broom for long journeys, and a Handbook of Do-It-Yourself  Broomcare.   
Apart from his friends, the thing that Harry missed most about Hogwarts  was Quidditch, the most popular sport in the magical world -- highly  dangerous, very exciting, and played on broomsticks. Harry happened to  be a very good Quidditch player; he had been the youngest person in a   
9   
  
 century to be picked for one of the Hogwarts House teams. One of Harry's  most prized possessions was his Nimbus Two Thousand racing broom.   
Harry put the leather case aside and picked up his last parcel. He  recognized the untidy scrawl on the brown paper at once: this was from  Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper. He tore off the top layer of paper and  glimpsed something green and leathery, but before he could unwrap it  properly, the parcel gave a strange quiver, and whatever was inside it  snapped loudly -- as though it had jaws.   
Harry froze. He knew that Hagrid would never send him anything dangerous  on purpose, but then, Hagrid didn't have a normal person's view of what  was dangerous. Hagrid had been known to befriend giant spiders, buy  vicious, three-headed dogs from men in pubs, and sneak illegal dragon  eggs into his cabin.   
Harry poked the parcel nervously. It snapped loudly again. Harry reached  for the lamp on his bedside table, gripped it firmly in one hand, and  raised it over his head, ready to strike. Then he seized the rest of the  wrapping paper in his other hand and pulled.   
And out fell -- a book. Harry just had time to register its handsome  green cover, emblazoned with the golden title The Monster Book of  Monsters, before it flipped onto its edge and scuttled sideways along  the bed like some weird crab.   
"Uh-oh," Harry muttered.   
The book toppled off the bed with a loud clunk and shuffled rapidly  across the room. Harry followed it stealthily. The book was hiding in  the dark space under his desk. Praying that the Dursleys were still fast  asleep, Harry got down on his hands and knees and reached toward it.   
"Ouch!"   
The book snapped shut on his hand and then flapped past him, still  scuttling on its covers. Harry scrambled around, threw himself forward,  and managed to flatten it. Uncle Vernon gave a loud, sleepy grunt in the  room next door.   
10   
  
 Hedwig and Errol watched interestedly as Harry clamped the struggling  book tightly in his arms, hurried to his chest of drawers, and pulled  out a belt, which he buckled tightly around it. The Monster Book  shuddered angrily, but could no longer flap and snap, so Harry threw it  down on the bed and reached for Hagrid's card.   
Dear Harry,   
Happy Birthday!   
Think you might find this useful for next year. Won't say no more here.  Tell you when I see you. Hope the Muggles are treating you right.   
All the best,   
Hagrid   
It struck Harry as ominous that Hagrid thought a biting book would come  in useful, but he put Hagrid's card up next to Ron's and Hermione's,  grinning more broadly than ever. Now there was only the letter from  Hogwarts left.   
Noticing that it was rather thicker than usual, Harry slit open the  envelope, pulled out the first page of parchment within, and read:   
Dear Mr. Potter,   
Please note that the new school year will begin on September the first.  The Hogwarts Express will leave ftom King's Cross station, platform nine  and three-quarters, at eleven o'clock.   
Third years are permitted to visit the village of Hogsmeade on certain  weekends. Please give the enclosed permission form to your parent or  guardian to sign.   
A list of books for next year is enclosed. Yours sincerely,   
Professor M. McGonagall   
Deputy Headmistress   
11   
  
 Harry pulled out the Hogsmeade permission form and looked at it, no  longer grinning. It would be wonderful to visit Hogsmeade on weekends;  he knew it was an entirely wizarding village, and he had never set foot  there. But how on earth was he going to persuade Uncle Vernon or Aunt  Petunia to sign the form?   
He looked over at the alarm clock. It was now two o'clock in the  morning.   
Deciding that he'd worry about the Hogsmeade form when he woke up, Harry  got back into bed and reached up to cross off another day on the chart  he'd made for himself, counting down the days left until his return to  Hogwarts. Then he took off his glasses and lay down, eyes open, facing  his three birthday cards.   
Extremely unusual though he was, at that moment Harry Potter felt just  like everyone else -- glad, for the first time in his life, that it was  his birthday.   
CHAPTER TWO   
AUNT MARGE'S BIG MISTAKE   
Harry went down to breakfast the next morning to find the three Dursleys  already sitting around the kitchen table. They were watching a brand-new  television, a welcome-home-for-the-summer present for Dudley, who had  been complaining loudly about the long walk between the fridge and the  television in the living room. Dudley had spent most of the summer in  the kitchen, his piggy little eyes fixed on the screen and his five  chins wobbling as he ate continually.   
Harry sat down between Dudley and Uncle Vernon, a large, beefy man with  very little neck and a lot of mustache. Far from wishing Harry a happy  birthday, none of the Dursleys made any sign that they had noticed Harry  enter the room, but Harry was far too used to this to care. He helped  himself to a piece of toast and then looked up at the reporter on the  television, who was halfway through a report on an escaped convict:   
"... The public is warned that Black is armed and extremely dangerous. A   
12   
  
 special hot line has been set up, and any sighting of Black should be  reported immediately."   
"No need to tell us he's no good," snorted Uncle Vernon, staring over  the top of his newspaper at the prisoner. "Look at the state of him, the  filthy layabout! Look at his hair!"   
He shot a nasty look sideways at Harry, whose untidy hair had always  been a source of great annoyance to Uncle Vernon. Compared to the man on  the television, however, whose gaunt face was surrounded by a matted,  elbow-length tangle, Harry felt very well groomed indeed.   
The reporter had reappeared.   
"The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will announce today --"   
"Hang on!" barked Uncle Vernon, staring furiously at the reporter. "You  didn't tell us where that maniac's escaped from! \What use is that?  Lunatic could be coming up the street right now!"   
Aunt Petunia, who was bony and horse-faced, whipped around and peered  intently out of the kitchen window. Harry knew Aunt Petunia would simply  love to be the one to call the hot line number. She was the nosiest  woman in the world and spent most of her life spying on the boring,  law-abiding neighbors.   
"When will they learn," said Uncle Vernon, pounding the table with his  large purple fist, "that hanging's the only way to deal with these  people?"   
"Very true," said Aunt Petunia, who was still squinting into next door's  runner beans.   
Uncle Vernon drained his teacup, glanced at his watch, and added, "I'd  better be off in a minute, Petunia. Marge's train gets in at ten."   
Harry, whose thoughts had been upstairs with the Broomstick Servicing  Kit, was brought back to earth with an unpleasant bump.   
"Aunt Marge?" he blurted out. "Sh -- she's not coming here, is she?"   
13   
  
 Aunt Marge was Uncle Vernon's sister. Even though she was not a blood  relative of Harry's (whose mother had been Aunt Petunia's sister), he  had been forced to call her "Aunt" all his life. Aunt Marge lived in the  country, in a house with a large garden, where she bred bulldogs. She  didn't often stay at Privet Drive, because she couldn't bear to leave  her precious dogs, but each of her visits stood out horribly vividly in  Harry's mind.   
At Dudley's fifth birthday party, Aunt Margo had whacked Harry around  the shins with her walking stick to stop him from beating Dudley at  musical statues. A few years later, she had turned up at Christmas with  a computerized robot for Dudley and a box of dog biscuits for Harry. On  her last visit, the year before Harry started at Hogwarts, Harry had  accidentally trodden on the tail of her favorite dog. Ripper had chased  Harry out into the garden and up a tree, and Aunt Marge had refused to  call him off until past midnight. The memory of this incident still  brought tears of laughter to Dudley's eyes.   
"Marge'll be here for a week," Uncle Vernon snarled, 11 and while we're  on the subject" -- he pointed a fat finger threateningly at Harry -- "we  need to get a few things straight before I go and collect her."   
Dudley smirked and withdrew his gaze from the television. Watching Harry  being bullied by Uncle Vernon was Dudley's favorite form of  entertainment.   
"Firstly," growled Uncle Vernon, "you'll keep a civil tongue in your  head when you're talking to Marge."   
"All right," said Harry bitterly, "if she does when she's talking to me.   
"Secondly," said Uncle Vernon, acting as though he had not heard Harry's  reply, "as Marge doesn't know anything about your abnormality, I don't  want any -- any funny stuff while she's here.   
You behave yourself, got me?"   
"I will if she does," said Harry through gritted teeth.   
14   
  
 "And thirdly," said Uncle Vernon, his mean little eyes now slits in his  great purple face, "we've told Marge you attend St. Brutus's Secure  Center for Incurably Criminal Boys."   
"What?" Harry yelled.   
"And you'll be sticking to that story, boy, or there'll be trouble, spat  Uncle Vernon.   
Harry sat there, white-faced and furious, staring at Uncle Vernon,  hardly able to believe it. Aunt Marge coming for a weeklong visit -- it  was the worst birthday present the Dursleys had ever given him,  including that pair of Uncle Vernon's old socks.   
"Well, Petunia," said Uncle Vernon, getting heavily to his feet, "I'll  be off to the station, then. Want to come along for the ride, Dudders?"   
"No," said Dudley, whose attention had returned to the television now  that Uncle Vernon had finished threatening Harry.   
"Duddy's got to make himself smart for his auntie," said Aunt Petunia,  smoothing Dudley's thick blond hair. "Mummy's bought him a lovely new  bow tie."   
Uncle Vernon clapped Dudley on his porky shoulder. "See you in a bit,  then," he said, and he left the kitchen.   
Harry, who had been sitting in a kind of horrified trance, had a sudden  idea. Abandoning his toast, he got quickly to his feet and followed  Uncle Vernon to the front door.   
Uncle Vernon was pulling on his car coat.   
"I'm not taking you," he snarled as he turned to see Harry watching him.   
"Like I wanted to come," said Harry coldly. "I want to ask you  something."   
Uncle Vernon eyed him suspiciously.   
15   
  
 "Third years at Hog -- at my school are allowed to visit the village  sometimes," said Harry.   
"So?" snapped Uncle Vernon, taking his car keys from a hook next to the  door.   
"I need you to sign the permission form," said Harry in a rush.   
"And why should I do that?" sneered Uncle Vernon.   
"Well," said Harry, choosing his words carefully, "it'll be hard work,  pretending to Aunt Marge I go to that St. Whatsits --"   
"St. Brutus's Secure Center for Incurably Criminal Boys!" bellowed Uncle  Vernon, and Harry was pleased to hear a definite note of panic in Uncle  Vernon's voice.   
"Exactly," said Harry, looking calmly up into Uncle Vernon's large,  purple face. "It's a lot to remember. I'll have to make it sound  convincing, won't I? What if I accidentally let something slip?"   
"You'll get the stuffing knocked out of you, won't you?" roared Uncle  Vernon, advancing on Harry with his fist raised. But Harry stood his  ground.   
"Knocking the stuffing out of me won't make Aunt Marge forget what I  could tell her," he said grimly.   
Uncle Vernon stopped, his fist still raised, his face an ugly puce.   
"But if you sign my permission form," Harry went on quickly, "I swear  I'll remember where I'm supposed to go to school, and I'll act like a  Mug -- like I'm normal and everything."   
Harry could tell that Uncle Vernon was thinking it over, even if his  teeth were bared and a vein was throbbing in his temple.   
"Right," he snapped finally. "I shall monitor your behavior carefully  during Marge's visit. If, at the end of it, you've toed the line and  kept to the story, I'll sign your ruddy form."   
16   
  
 He wheeled around, pulled open the front door, and slammed it so hard  that one of the little panes of glass at the top fell out.   
Harry didn't return to the kitchen. He went back upstairs to his  bedroom. If he was going to act like a real Muggle, he'd better start  now. Slowly and sadly he gathered up all his presents and his birthday  cards and hid them under the loose floorboard with his homework. Then he  went to Hedwig's cage. Errol seemed to have recovered; he and Hedwig  were both asleep, heads under their wings. Harry sighed, then poked them  both awake.   
"Hedwig," he said gloomily, "you're going to have to clear off for a  week. Go with Errol. Ron'll look after you. I'll write him a note,  explaining. And don't look at me like that" -- Hedwig's large amber eyes  were reproachful -- "it's not my fault. It's the only way I'll be  allowed to visit Hogsmeade with Ron and Hermione."   
Ten minutes later, Errol and Hedwig (who had a note to Ron bound to her  leg) soared out of the window and out of sight. Harry, now feeling  thoroughly miserable, put the empty cage away inside the wardrobe.   
But Harry didn't have long to brood. In next to no time, Aunt Petunia  was shrieking up the stairs for Harry to come down and get ready to  welcome their guest.   
"Do something about your hair!" Aunt Petunia snapped as he reached the  hall.   
Harry couldn't see the point of trying to make his hair lie flat. Aunt  Marge loved criticizing him, so the untidier he looked, the happier she  would be.   
All too soon, there was a crunch of gravel outside as Uncle Vernon's car  pulled back into the driveway, then the clunk of the car doors and  footsteps on the garden path.   
"Get the door!" Aunt Petunia hissed at Harry.   
A feeling of great gloom in his stomach, Harry pulled the door open.   
17   
  
 On the threshold stood Aunt Marge. She was very like Uncle Vernon:  large, beefy, and purple- faced, she even had a mustache, though not as  bushy as his. In one hand she held an enormous suitcase, and tucked  under the other was an old and evil-tempered bulldog.   
"Where's my Dudders?" roared Aunt Marge. "Where's my neffy-poo?"   
Dudley came waddling down the hall, his blond hair plastered flat to his  fat head, a bow tie just visible under his many chins. Aunt Marge thrust  the suitcase into Harry's stomach, knocking the wind out of him, seized  Dudley in a tight one-armed hug, and planted a large kiss on his cheek.   
Harry knew perfectly well that Dudley only put up with Aunt Marge's hugs  because he was well paid for it, and sure enough, when they broke apart,  Dudley had a crisp twenty-pound note clutched in his fat fist.   
"Petunia!" shouted Aunt Marge, striding past Harry as though he was a  hat stand. Aunt Marge and Aunt Petunia kissed, or rather, Aunt Marge  bumped her large jaw against Aunt Petunia's bony cheekbone.   
Uncle Vernon now came in, smiling jovially as he shut the door.   
"Tea, Marge?" he said. "And what will Ripper take?"   
"Ripper can have some tea out of my saucer," said Aunt Marge as they all  proceeded into the kitchen, leaving Harry alone in the hall with the  suitcase. But Harry wasn't complaining; any excuse not to be with Aunt  Marge was fine by him, so he began to heave the case upstairs into the  spare bedroom, taking as long as he could.   
By the time he got back to the kitchen, Aunt Marge had been supplied  with tea and fruitcake, and Ripper was lapping noisily in the corner.  Harry saw Aunt Petunia wince slightly as specks of tea and drool flecked  her clean floor. Aunt Petunia hated animals.   
"Who's looking after the other dogs, Marge?" Uncle Vernon asked.   
"Oh, I've got Colonel Fubster managing them," boomed Aunt Marge. "He's  retired now, good for him to have something to do. But I couldn't leave   
18   
  
 poor old Ripper. He pines if he's away from me."   
Ripper began to growl again as Harry sat down. This directed Aunt  Marge's attention to Harry for the first time.   
"So!" she barked. "Still here, are you?"   
"Yes," said Harry.   
"Don't you say yes' in that ungrateful tone," Aunt Marge growled. "It's  damn good of Vernon and Petunia to keep you. Wouldn't have done it  myself. You'd have gone straight to an orphanage if you'd been dumped on  my doorstep."   
Harry was bursting to say that he'd rather live in an orphanage than  with the Dursleys, but the thought of the Hogsmeade form stopped him. He  forced his face into a painful smile.   
"Don't you smirk at me!" boomed Aunt Marge. "I can see you haven't  improved since I last saw you. I hoped school would knock some manners  into you." She took a large gulp of tea, wiped her mustache, and said,  "Where is it that you send him, again, Vernon?"   
"St. Brutus's," said Uncle Vernon promptly. "It's a first-rate  institution for hopeless cases."   
"I see," said Aunt Marge. "Do they use the cane at St. Brutus's, boy?"  she barked across the table.   
"Er --"   
Uncle Vernon nodded curtly behind Aunt Marge's back.   
"Yes," said Harry. Then, feeling he might as well do the thing properly,  he added, "all the time."   
"Excellent," said Aunt Marge. "I won't have this namby-pamby,  wishy-washy nonsense about not hitting people who deserve it. A good  thrashing is what's needed in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred. Have  you been beaten often?"   
19   
  
 "Oh, yeah," said Harry, "loads of times."   
Aunt Marge narrowed her eyes.   
"I still don't like your tone, boy," she said. "If you can speak of your  beatings in that casual way, they clearly aren't hitting you hard  enough. Petunia, I'd write if I were you. Make it clear that you approve  the use of extreme force in this boy's case."   
Perhaps Uncle Vernon was worried that Harry might forget their bargain;  in any case, he changed the subject abruptly.   
"Heard the news this morning, Marge? What about that escaped prisoner,  eh?"   
As Aunt Marge started to make herself at home, Harry caught himself  thinking almost longingly of life at number four without her. Uncle  Vernon and Aunt Petunia usually encouraged Harry to stay out of their  way, which Harry was only too happy to do. Aunt Marge, on the other  hand, wanted Harry under her eye at all times, so that she could boom  out suggestions for his improvement. She delighted in comparing Harry  with Dudley, and took huge pleasure in buying Dudley expensive presents  while glaring at Harry, as though daring him to ask why he hadn't got a  present too. She also kept throwing out dark hints about what made Harry  such an unsatisfactory person.   
"You mustn't blame yourself for the way the boy's turned out, Vernon,"  she said over lunch on the third day. "If there's something rotten on  the inside, there's nothing anyone can do about it."   
Harry tried to concentrate on his food, but his hands shook and his face  was starting to burn with anger. Remember the form, he told himself  Think about Hogsmeade. Don't say anything. Don't rise   
Aunt Marge reached for her glass of wine.   
"It's one of the basic rules of breeding," she said. "You see it all the  time with dogs. If there's something wrong with the bitch, there'll be  something wrong with the pup --"   
20   
  
 At that moment, the wineglass Aunt Marge was holding exploded in her  hand. Shards of glass flew in every direction and Aunt Marge sputtered  and blinked, her great ruddy face dripping.   
"Marge!" squealed Aunt Petunia. "Marge, are you all right?"   
"Not to worry," grunted Aunt Marge, mopping her face with her napkin.  "Must have squeezed it too hard. Did the same thing at Colonel Fubster's  the other day. No need to fuss, Petunia, I have a very firm grip..."   
But Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon were both looking at Harry  suspiciously, so he decided he'd better skip dessert and escape from the  table as soon as he could.   
Outside in the hall, he leaned against the wall, breathing deeply It had  been a long time since he'd lost control and made something explode. He  couldn't afford to let it happen again. The Hogsmeade form wasn't the  only thing at stake -- if he carried on like that, he'd be in trouble  with the Ministry of Magic.   
Harry was still an underage wizard, and he was forbidden by wizard law  to do magic outside school. His record wasn't exactly clean either. Only  last summer he'd gotten an official warning that had stated quite  clearly that if the Ministry got wind of any more magic in Privet Drive,  Harry would face expulsion from Hogwarts.   
He heard the Dursleys leaving the table and hurried upstairs out of the  way.   
Harry got through the next three days by forcing himself to think about  his Handbook of Do-It-Yourself Broomcare whenever Aunt Marge started on  him. This worked quite well, though it seemed to give him a glazed look,  because Aunt Marge started voicing the opinion that he was mentally  subnormal.   
At last, at long last, the final evening of Marge's stay arrived. Aunt  Petunia cooked a fancy dinner and Uncle Vernon uncorked several bottles  of wine. They got all the way through the soup and the salmon without a  single mention of Harry's faults; during the lemon meringue pie, Uncle   
21   
  
 Vernon bored them A with a long talk about Grunnings, his drill-making  company; then Aunt Petunia made coffee and Uncle Vernon brought out a  bottle of brandy.   
"Can I tempt you, Marge?"   
Aunt Marge had already had quite a lot of wine. Her huge face was very  red.   
"Just a small one, then," she chuckled. "A bit more than that... and a  bit more... that's the ticket."   
Dudley was eating his fourth slice of pie. Aunt Petunia was sipping  coffee with her little finger sticking out. Harry really wanted to  disappear into his bedroom, but he met Uncle Vernon's angry little eyes  and knew he would have to sit it out.   
"Aah," said Aunt Marge, smacking her lips and putting the empty brandy  glass back down. "Excellent nosh, Petunia. It's normally just a fry-up  for me of an evening, with twelve dogs to look after...." She burped  richly and patted her great tweed stomach. "Pardon me. But I do like to  see a healthy-sized boy," she went on, winking at Dudley. "You'll be a  proper-sized man, Dudders, like your father. Yes, I'll have a spot more  brandy, Vernon...."   
"Now, this one here --"   
She jerked her head at Harry, who felt his stomach clench. The Handbook,  he thought quickly.   
"This one's got a mean, runty look about him. You get that with dogs. I  had Colonel Fubster drown one last year. Ratty little thing it was- Weak. Underbred."   
Harry was trying to remember page twelve of his book: A Charm to Cure  Reluctant Reversers. "It all comes down to blood, as I was saying the  other day.   
Bad blood will out. Now, I'm saying nothing against your family,  Petunia" she patted Aunt Petunia's bony hand with her shovellike one   
22   
  
 "but your sister was a bad egg. They turn up in the best families. Then  she ran off with a wastrel and here's the result right in front of us."   
 Harry was staring at his plate, a funny ringing in his ears. Grasp your  broom firmly by the tail, he thought. But he couldn't remember what came  next. Aunt Marge's voice seemed to be boring into him like one of Uncle  Vernon's drills.   
 "This Potter, 5) said Aunt Marge loudly, seizing the brandy bottle and  splashing more into her glass and over the tablecloth, "you never told  me what he did?"   
 Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia were looking extremely tense. Dudley had  even looked up from his pie to gape at his parents.   
 "He -- didn't work," said Uncle Vernon, with half a glance at Harry.  "Unemployed."   
 "As I expected!" said Aunt Marge, taking a huge swig of brandy and  wiping her chin on her sleeve. "A no-account, good-for-nothing, lazy  scrounger who --"   
 "He was not," said Harry suddenly. The table went very quiet. Harry was  shaking all over. He had never felt so angry in his life.   
 "MORE BRANDY!" yelled Uncle Vernon, who had gone very white. He emptied  the bottle into Aunt Marge's glass. "You, boy," he snarled at Harry. "Go  to bed, go on --"   
 "No, Vernon," hiccuped Aunt Marge, holding up a hand, her tiny bloodshot  eyes fixed on Harry's. "Go on, boy, go on. Proud of your parents, are  you? They go and get themselves killed in a car crash (drunk, I expect)  --"   
 'They didn't die in a car crash!" said Harry, who found himself on his  feet.   
 "They died in a car crash, you nasty little liar, and left you to be a  burden on their decent, hardworking relatives!" screamed Aunt Marge,  swelling with fury. "You are an insolent, ungrateful little --"   
 23   
  
 But Aunt Marge suddenly stopped speaking. For a moment, it looked as  though words had failed her. She seemed to be swelling with  inexpressible anger -- but the swelling didn't stop. Her great red face  started to expand, her tiny eyes bulged, and her mouth stretched too  tightly for speech -- next second, several buttons had just burst from  her tweed jacket and pinged off the walls -- she was inflating like a  monstrous balloon, her stomach bursting free of her tweed waistband,  each of her fingers blowing up like a salami -  
 "MARGE!" yelled Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia together as Aunt Marge's  whole body began to rise off her chair toward the ceiling. She was  entirely round, now, like a vast life buoy with piggy eyes, and her  hands and feet stuck out weirdly as she drifted up into the air, making  apoplectic popping noises. Ripper came skidding into the room, barking  madly.   
"NOOOOOOO!"   
Uncle Vernon seized one of Marge's feet and tried to pull her down  again, but was almost lifted from the floor himself. A second later,  Ripper leapt forward and sank his teeth into Uncle Vernon's leg.   
Harry tore from the dining room before anyone could stop him, heading  for the cupboard under the stairs. The cupboard door burst magically  open as he reached it. In seconds, he had heaved his trunk to the front  door. He sprinted upstairs and threw himself under the bed, wrenching up  the loose floorboard, and grabbed the pillowcase full of his books and  birthday presents. He wriggled out, seized Hedwig's empty cage, and  dashed back downstairs to his trunk, just as Uncle Vernon burst out of  the dining room, his trouser leg in bloody tatters.   
"COME BACK IN HERE!" he bellowed. "COME BACK AND PUT HER  RIGHT!"   
But a reckless rage had come over Harry. He kicked his trunk open,  pulled out his wand, and pointed it at Uncle Vernon.   
"She deserved it," Harry said, breathing very fast. "She deserved what  she got. You keep away from me."   
24   
  
 He fumbled behind him for the latch on the door.   
"I'm going," Harry said. "I've had enough."   
And in the next moment, he was out in the dark, quiet street, heaving  his heavy trunk behind him, Hedwig's cage under his arm.   
CHAPTER THREE   
THE KNIGHT BUS   
Harry was several streets away before he collapsed onto a low wall in  Magnolia Crescent, panting from the effort of dragging his trunk. He sat  quite still, anger still surging through him, listening to the frantic  thumping of his heart.   
But after ten minutes alone in the dark street, a new emotion overtook  him: panic. Whichever way he looked at it, he had never been in a worse  fix. He was stranded, quite alone, in the dark Muggle world, with  absolutely nowhere to go. And the worst of it was, he had just done  serious magic, which meant that he was almost certainly expelled from  Hogwarts. He had broken the Decree for the Restriction of Underage  Wizardry so badly, he was surprised Ministry of Magic representatives  weren't swooping down on him where he sat.   
Harry shivered and looked up and down Magnolia Crescent.   
What, was going to happen to him? Would he be arrested, or would he  simply be outlawed from the wizarding world? He thought of Ron and  Hermione, and his heart sank even lower. Harry was sure that, criminal  or not, Ron and Hermione would want to help him now, but they were both  abroad, and with Hedwig gone, he had no means of contacting them.   
He didn't have any Muggle money, either. There was a little wizard gold  in the money bag at the bottom of his trunk, but the rest of the fortune  his parents had left him was stored in a vault at Gringotts Wizarding  Bank in London. He'd never be able to drag his trunk all the way to  London. Unless...   
25   
  
 He looked down at his wand, which he was still clutching in his hand. If  he was already expelled (his heart was. now thumping painfully fast), a  bit more magic couldn't hurt. He had the Invisibility Cloak he had  inherited from his father -- what if he bewitched the trunk to make it  feather-light, tied it to his broomstick, covered himself in the cloak,  and flew to London? Then he could get the rest of his money out of his  vault and... begin his life as an outcast. It was a horrible prospect,  but he couldn't sit on this wall forever, or he'd find himself trying to  explain to Muggle police why he was out in the dead of night with a  trunkful of spellbooks and a broomstick.   
Harry opened his trunk again and pushed the contents aside, looking for  the Invisibility Cloak - but before he had found it, he straightened up  suddenly, looking around him once more.   
A funny prickling on the back of his neck had made Harry feel he was  being watched, but the street appeared to be deserted, and no lights  shone from any of the large square houses.   
He bent over his trunk again, but almost immediately stood up once more,  his hand clenched on his wand. He had sensed rather than heard it:  someone or something was standing in the narrow gap between the garage  and the fence behind him. Harry squinted at the black alleyway. If only  it would move, then he'd know whether it was just a stray cat or -something  else.   
"Lumos," Harry muttered, and a light appeared at the end of his wand,  almost dazzling him. He held it high over his head, and the  pebble-dashed walls of number two suddenly sparkled; the garage door  gleamed, and between them Harry saw, quite distinctly, the hulking  outline of something very big, with wide, gleaming eyes.   
Harry stepped backward. His legs hit his trunk and he tripped. His wand  flew out of his hand as he flung out an arm to break his fall, and he  landed, hard, in the gutter -  
 There was a deafening BANG, and Harry threw up his hands to shield his  eyes against a sudden blinding light -  
 With a yell, he rolled back onto the pavement, just in time. A second   
26   
  
 later, a gigantic pair of wheels and headlights screeched to a halt  exactly where Harry had just been lying. They belonged, as Harry saw  when he raised his head, to a triple-decker, violently purple bus, which  had appeared out of thin air. Gold lettering over the windshield spelled  The Knight Bus.   
For a Split second, Harry wondered if he had been knocked silly by his  fall. Then a conductor in a purple uniform leapt out of the bus and  began to speak loudly to the night.   
"Welcome to the Knight Bus, emergency transport for the stranded witch  or wizard. just stick out your wand hand, step on board) and we can take  you anywhere you want to go. My name is Stan Shunpike, and I will be  your conductor this eve --"   
The conductor stopped abruptly. He had just caught sight of "Harry, who  was still sitting on the ground. Harry snatched up his wand again and  scrambled to his feet. Close up, he saw that Stan Shunpike was only a  few years older than he was, eighteen or nineteen at most, with large,  protruding ears and quite a few pimples.   
"What were you doin' down there?" said Stan, dropping his professional  manner.   
"Fell over," said Harry.   
"'Choo fall over for?" sniggered Stan.   
"I didn't do it on purpose," said Harry, annoyed. One of the knees in  his jeans was torn, and the hand he had thrown out to break his fall was  bleeding. He suddenly remembered why he had fallen over and turned  around quickly to stare at the alleyway between the garage and fence.  The Knight Bus's headlamps were flooding it with light, and it was  empty.   
"'Choo lookin' at?" said Stan.   
"There was a big black thing," said Harry, pointing uncertainly into the  gap. "Like a dog... but massive..."   
27   
  
 He looked a-round at Stan, whose mouth was slightly open. With a feeling  of unease, Harry saw Stan's eyes move to the scar on Harry's forehead.   
"Woss that on your 'ead?" said Stan abruptly.   
"Nothing," said Harry quickly, flattening his hair over his scar. If the  Ministry of Magic was looking for him, he didn't want to make it too  easy for them.   
"Woss your name?" Stan persisted.   
"Neville Longbottom," said Harry, saying the first name that came into  his head. "So -- so this bus," he went on quickly, hoping to distract  Stan, "did you say it goes anywhere?"   
"Yep," said Stan proudly, "anywhere you like, long's it's on land. Can't  do nuffink underwater. 'Ere," he said, looking suspicious again, ,You  did flag us down, dincha? Stuck out your wand 'and, dincha?"   
"Yes," said Harry quickly. "Listen, how much would it be to get to  London?"   
"Eleven Sickles," said Stan, "but for fifteen you get 'or chocolate, and  for fifteen you get an 'ot water bottle an' a toofbrush in the color of  your choice."   
Harry rummaged once more in his trunk, extracted his money bag, and  shoved some gold into Stan's hand. He and Stan then lifted his trunk,  with Hedwig's cage balanced on top, up the steps of the bus.   
There were no seats; instead, half a dozen brass bedsteads stood beside  the curtained windows. Candles were burning in brackets beside each bed,  illuminating the wood-paneled walls. A tiny wizard in a nightcap at the  rear of the bus muttered, "Not now, thanks, I'm pickling some slugs" and  rolled over in his sleep.   
"You 'ave this one," Stan whispered, shoving Harry's trunk under the bed  right behind the driver, who was sitting in an armchair in front of the  steering wheel. "This is our driver, Ernie Prang. This ,is Neville  Longbottom, Ern. "   
28   
  
 Ernie Prang, an elderly wizard wearing very thick glasses, nodded to  Harry, who nervously flattened his bangs again and sat down on his bed.   
"Take 'er away, Ern," said Stan, sitting down in the armchair next to  Ernie's.   
There was another tremendous BANG, and the next moment Harry found  himself flat on his bed, thrown backward by the speed of the Knight Bus.  Pulling himself up, Harry stared out of the dark window and saw that  they were now bowling along a completely different street. Stan was  watching Harry's stunned face with great enjoyment.   
"This is where we was before you flagged us down," he said. "Where are  we, Ern? Somewhere in Wales?"   
"Ar," said Ernie.   
"How come the Muggles don't hear the bus?" said Harry.   
"Them!" said Stan contemptuously. "Don' listen properly, do they? Don'  look properly either. Never notice nuffink, they don'."   
"Best go wake up Madam Marsh, Stan," said Ern. "We'll be in Abergavenny  in a minute."   
Stan passed Harry's bed and disappeared up a narrow wooden staircase.  Harry was still looking out of the window, feeling increasingly nervous.  Ernie didn't seem to have mastered the use of a steering wheel. The  Knight Bus kept mounting the pavement, but it didn't hit anything; lines  of lampposts, mailboxes, and trash cans jumped out of its way as it  approached and back into position once it had passed.   
Stan came back downstairs, followed by a faintly green witch wrapped in  a traveling cloak.   
"'Ere you go, Madam Marsh," said Stan happily as Ern stamped on the  brake and the beds slid a foot or so toward the front of the bus. Madam  Marsh clamped a handkerchief to her mouth and tottered down the steps.  Stan threw her bag out after her and rammed the doors shut; there was   
29   
  
 another loud BANG, and they were thundering down a narrow country lane,  trees leaping out of the way.   
Harry wouldn't have been able to sleep even if he had been traveling on  a bus that didn't keep banging loudly and jumping a hundred miles at a  time. His stomach churned as he fell back to wondering what was going to  happen to him, and whether the Dursleys had managed to get Aunt Marge  off the ceiling yet.   
Stan had unfurled a copy of the Daily Prophet and was now reading with  his tongue between his teeth. A large photograph of a sunken-faced man  with long, matted hair blinked slowly at Harry from the front page. He  looked strangely familiar.   
"That man!" Harry said, forgetting his troubles for a moment. "He was on  the Muggle news!"   
Stanley turned to the front page and chuckled.   
"Sirius Black," he said, nodding. "'Course 'e was on the Muggle news,  Neville, where you been?"   
He gave a superior sort of chuckle at the blank look on Harry's face,  removed the front page, and handed it to Harry.   
"You oughta read the papers more, Neville."   
Harry held the paper up to the candlelight and read:   
BLACK STILL AT LARGE   
Sirius Black, possibly the most infamous prisoner ever to be held in  Azkaban fortress, is still eluding capture, the Ministry of Magic  confirmed today.   
"We are doing all we can to recapture Black," said the Minister of  Magic, Cornelius Fudge, this morning, "and we beg the magical community  to remain calm."   
Fudge has been criticized by some members of the International   
30   
  
 Federation of Warlocks for informing the Muggle Prime Minister of the  crisis.   
 "Well, really, I had to, don't you know," said an irritable Fudge.  "Black is mad. He's a danger to anyone who crosses him, magic or Muggle.  I have the Prime Minister's assurance that he will not breathe a word of  Black's true identity to anyone. And let's face it-who'd believe him if  he did?"   
 While Muggles have been told that Black is carrying a gun (a kind of  metal wand that Muggles use to kill each other), the magical community  lives in fear of a massacre like that of twelve years ago, when Black  murdered thirteen people with a single curse.   
 Harry looked into the shadowed eyes of Sirius Black, the only part of  the sunken face that seemed alive. Harry had never met a vampire, but he  had seen pictures of them in his Defense Against the Dark Arts classes,  and Black, with his waxy white skin, looked just like one.   
 "Scary-lookin' fing, inee?" said Stan, who had been watching Harry read.   
 "He murdered thirteen people?" said Harry, handing the page back to  Stan, "with one curse?"   
 "Yep," said Stan, "in front of witnesses an' all. Broad daylight. Big  trouble it caused, dinnit, Ern?"   
 "Ar," said Ern darkly.   
 Stan swiveled in his armchair, his hands on the back, the better to look  at Harry.   
 "Black woz a big supporter of You-Know-'Oo," he said.   
 "What, Voldemort?" said Harry, without thinking.   
 Even Stan's pimples went white; Ern jerked the steering wheel so hard  that a whole farmhouse had to jump aside to avoid the bus.   
 "You outta your tree?" yelped Stan. "'Choo say 'is name for?"   
 31   
  
 "Sorry," said Harry hastily. "Sorry, I -- I forgot --"   
"Forgot!" said Stan weakly. "Blimey, my 'eart's goin' that fast ..."   
"So -- so Black was a supporter of You-Know-Who?" Harry prompted  apologetically.   
 "Yeah," said Stan, still rubbing his chest. "Yeah, that's right. Very  close to You-Know-'Oo, they say. Anyway, when little 'Arry Potter got  the better of You-Know-'Oo --"   
 Harry nervously flattened his bangs down again.   
 "-- all You-Know-'Oo's supporters was tracked down, wasn't they, Ern?  Most of 'em knew it was all over, wiv You-Know-'Oo gone, and they came  quiet. But not Sirius Black. I 'eard he thought 'e'd be  second-in-command once You-Know-'Oo 'ad taken over.   
 "Anyway, they cornered Black in the middle of a street full of Muggles  an' Black took out 'is wand and 'e blasted 'alf the street apart, an' a  wizard got it, an' so did a dozen Muggles what got in the way. 'Orrible,  eh? An' you know what Black did then?" Stan continued in a dramatic  whisper.   
 "What?" said Harry.   
 "Laughed," said Stan. "Jus' stood there an' laughed. An' when  reinforcements from the Ministry of Magic got there, I 'e went wiv em  quiet as anyfink, still laughing 'is 'ead off. 'Cos 'e's mad, inee, Ern?  Inee mad?"   
 "If he weren't when he went to Azkaban, he will be now," said Ern in his  slow voice. "I'd blow meself up before I set foot in that place. Serves  him right, mind you ... after what he did...."   
 "They 'ad a job coverin' it up, din' they, Ern?" Stan said. "'Ole street  blown up an' all them Muggles dead. What was it they said ad 'appened,  Ern?"   
 32   
  
 "Gas explosion," grunted Ernie.   
"An' now 'e's out," said Stan, examining the newspaper picture of  Black's gaunt face again. "Never been a breakout from Azkaban before,  'as there, Ern? Beats me 'ow 'e did it. Frightenin', eh? Mind, I don't  fancy 'is chances against them Azkaban guards, eh, Ern?"   
Ernie suddenly shivered.   
"Talk about summat else, Stan, there's a good lad. Them Azkaban guards  give me the collywobbles."   
Stan put the paper away reluctantly, and Harry leaned against the window  of the Knight Bus, feeling worse than ever. He couldn't help imagining  what Stan might be telling his passengers in a few nights' time.   
"'Ear about that 'Arry Potter? Blew up 'is aunt! We 'ad 'im 'ere on the  Knight Bus, di'n't we, Ern? 'E was tryin' I to run for it...."   
He, Harry, had broken wizard law just like Sirius Black. Was inflating  Aunt Marge bad enough to land him in Azkaban? Harry didn't know anything  about the wizard prison, though everyone he'd ever heard speak of it did  so in the same fearful tone. Hagrid, the Hogwarts gamekeeper, had spent  two months there only last year. Harry wouldn't soon forget the look of  terror on Hagrid's face when he had been told where he was going, and  Hagrid was one of the bravest people Harry knew.   
The Knight Bus rolled through the darkness, scattering bushes and  wastebaskets, telephone booths and trees, and Harry lay, restless and  miserable, on his feather bed. After a while, Stan remembered that Harry  had paid for hot chocolate, but poured it all over Harry's pillow when  the bus moved abruptly from Anglesea to Aberdeen. One by one, wizards  and witches in dressing gowns and slippers descended from the upper  floors to leave the bus. They all looked very pleased to go.   
Finally, Harry was the only passenger left.   
"Right then, Neville," said Stan, clapping his hands, where abouts in  London?"   
33   
  
 "Diagon Alley," said Harry.   
"Righto," said Stan. "'Old tight, then."   
BANG.   
They were thundering along Charing Cross Road. Harry sat up and watched  buildings and benches squeezing themselves out of the Knight Bus's way.  The sky was getting a little lighter. He would lie low for a couple of  hours, go to Gringotts the. moment it opened, then set off -- where, he  didn't know.   
Ern slammed on the brakes and the Knight Bus skidded to a halt in front  of a small and shabby- looking pub, the Leaky Cauldron, behind which lay  the magical entrance to Diagon Alley.   
"Thanks," Harry said to Ern.   
He jumped down the steps and helped Stan lower his trunk and Hedwig's  cage onto the pavement.   
"Well," said Harry. "'Bye then!"   
But Stan wasn't paying attention. Still standing in the doorway to the  bus) he was goggling at the shadowy entrance to the Leaky Cauldron.  "There you are, Harry," said a voice.   
Before Harry could turn, he felt a hand on his shoulder. At the same  time, Stan shouted, "Blimey! Ern, come 'ere! Come 'ere I"   
Harry looked up at the owner of the hand on his shoulder and felt a  bucketful of ice cascade into his stomach -- he had walked right into  Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic himself.   
Stan leapt onto the pavement beside them.   
"What didja call Neville, Minister?" he said excitedly.   
Fudge, a portly little man in a long, pinstriped cloak, looked cold and  exhausted.   
34   
  
 "Neville?" he repeated, frowning. "This is Harry Potter."   
"I knew it!" Stan shouted gleefully. "Ern! Ern! Guess 'oo Neville is,  Ern! 'E's 'Arry Potter! I can see 'is scar!"   
"Yes," said Fudge testily, "well, I'm very glad the Knight Bus picked  Harry up, but he and I need to step inside the Leaky Cauldron now..."   
Fudge increased the pressure on Harry's shoulder, and Harry found  himself being steered inside the pub. A stooping figure bearing a  lantern appeared through the door behind the bar. It was Tom, the  wizened, toothless landlord.   
"You've got him, Minister!" said Tom. "Will you be wanting anything?  Beer? Brandy?"   
"Perhaps a pot of tea," said Fudge, who still hadn't let go of Harry.   
There was a loud scraping and puffing from behind them, and Stan and Ern  appeared, carrying Harry's trunk and Hedwig's cage and looking around  excitedly.   
"'Ow come you di'n't tell us 'oo you are, eh, Neville?" said Stan,  beaming at Harry, while Ernie's owlish face peered interestedly over  Stan's shoulder.   
"And a private parlor, please, Tom," said Fudge pointedly.   
`Bye," Harry said miserably to Stan and Ern as Tom beckoned Fudge toward  the passage that led from the bar.   
"'Bye, Neville!" called Stan.   
Fudge marched Harry along the narrow passage after Tom's lantern, and  then into a small parlor. Tom clicked his fingers, a fire burst into  life in the grate, and he bowed himself out of the room.   
"Sit down, Harry," said Fudge, indicating a chair by the fire.   
35   
  
 Harry sat down, feeling goose bumps rising up his arms despite the glow  of the fire. Fudge took off his pinstriped cloak and tossed it aside,  then hitched up the trousers of his bottle-green suit and sat down  opposite Harry.   
"I am Cornelius Fudge, Harry. The Minister of Magic."   
Harry already knew this, of course; he had seen Fudge once before, but  as he had been wearing his father's Invisibility Cloak at the time,  Fudge wasn't to know that.   
Tom the innkeeper reappeared, wearing an apron over his nightshirt and  bearing a tray of tea and crumpets. He placed the tray on a table  between Fudge and Harry and left the parlor, closing the door behind  him.   
"Well, Harry," said Fudge, pouring out tea, "you've had us all in a  right flap, I don't mind telling you. Running away from your aunt and  uncle's house like that! I'd started to think... but you're safe, and  that's what matters."   
Fudge buttered himself a crumpet and pushed the plate toward Harry.   
"Eat, Harry, you look dead on your feet. Now then... You will be pleased  to hear that we have dealt with the unfortunate blowing-up of Miss  Marjorie Dursley. Two members of the Accidental Magic Reversal  Department were dispatched to Privet Drive a few hours ago. Miss Dursley  has been punctured and her memory has been modified. She has no  recollection of the incident at all. So that's that, and no harm done."   
Fudge smiled at Harry over the rim of his teacup, rather like an uncle  surveying a favorite nephew. Harry, who couldn't believe his ears,  opened his mouth to speak, couldn't think of anything to say, and closed  it again.   
"Ah, you're worrying about the reaction of your aunt and uncle?" said  Fudge. "Well, I won't deny that they are extremely angry, Harry, but  they are prepared to take you back next summer as long as you stay at  Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays."   
36   
  
 Harry unstuck his throat.   
"I always stay at Hogwarts for the Christmas and Easter holidays," he  said, "and I don't ever want to go back to Privet Drive."   
"Now, now, I'm sure you'll feel differently once you've calmed down,"  said Fudge in a worried tone. "They are your family, after all, and I'm  sure you are fond of each other -- er -- very deep down."   
It didn't occur to Harry to put Fudge right. He was still waiting to  hear what was going to happen to him now.   
"So all that remains," said Fudge, now buttering himself a second  crumpet, "is to decide where you're going to spend the last two weeks of  your vacation. I suggest you take a room here at the Leaky Cauldron and   
"Hang on," blurted Harry. "What about my punishment?"   
Fudge blinked. "Punishment?"   
"I broke the law!" Harry said. "The Decree for the Restriction of  Underage Wizardry!"   
"Oh, my dear boy, we're not going to punish you for a little thing like  that!" cried Fudge, waving his crumpet impatiently. "It was an accident!  We don't send people to Azkaban just for blowing up their aunts!"   
But this didn't tally at all with Harry's past dealings with the  Ministry of Magic.   
"Last year, I got an official warning just because a house-elf smashed a  pudding in my uncle's house!" he told Fudge, frowning. "The Ministry of  Magic said I'd be expelled from Hogwarts if there was any more magic  there!"   
Unless Harry's eyes were deceiving him, Fudge was suddenly looking  awkward.   
"Circumstances change, Harry... We have to take into account... in the  present climate... Surely you don't want to be expelled?"   
37   
  
 "Of course I don't," said Harry.   
"Well then, what's A the fuss about?" laughed Fudge. "Now, have a  crumpet, Harry, while I go and see if Tom's got a room for you."  Fudge strode out of the parlor and Harry stared after him. There was   
something extremely odd going on. Why had Fudge been waiting for him at  the Leaky Cauldron, if not to punish him for what he'd done? And now  Harry came to think of it, surely it wasn't usual for the Minister of  Magic himself to get involved in matters of underage magic?   
Fudge came back, accompanied by Tom the innkeeper.  "Room eleven's free, Harry," said Fudge. "I think you'll be very  comfortable. just one thing, and I'm sure you'll understand... I don't  want you wandering off into Muggle London, all right? Keep to Diagon   
 Alley. And you're to be back here before dark each night. Sure you'll  understand. Tom will be keeping an eye on you for me."  "Okay," said Harry slowly, "but why?"  "Don't want to lose you again, do we?" said Fudge with a hearty laugh.   
 "No, no... best we know where you are.... I mean..."  Fudge cleared his throat loudly and picked up his pinstriped cloak.  "Well, I'll be off, plenty to do, you know...  "Have you had any luck with Black yet?" Harry asked.  Fudge's finger slipped on the silver fastenings of his cloak.  "What's that? Oh, you've heard -- well, no, not yet, but it's only a   
 matter of time. The Azkaban guards have never yet failed... and they are  angrier than I've ever seen them."  Fudge shuddered slightly.  "So, I'll say good-bye."   
 38   
  
 He held out his hand and Harry, shaking it, had a sudden idea.  "Er -- Minister? Can I ask you something?"  "Certainly," said Fudge with a smile.  "Well, third years at Hogwarts are allowed to visit Hogsmeade, but my   
 aunt and uncle didn't sign the permission form. D'you think you could  --?"   
Fudge was looking uncomfortable.  "Ah," he said. "No, no, I'm very sorry, Harry, but as I'm not your  parent or guardian --"   
 "But you I re the Minister of Magic," said Harry eagerly. "If you gave  me permission   
"No, I'm sorry, Harry, but rules are rules," said Fudge flatly.  'Perhaps You'll be able to visit Hogsmeade next year. In fact, I think  it's best if you don't... yes... well, I'll be off Enjoy your stay,  Harry."   
 And with a last smile and shake of Harry's hand, Fudge left the room.   
 Tom now moved forward, beaming at Harry.  "If you'll follow me, Mr. Potter," he said, "I've already taken your  things up..."   
 Harry followed Tom up a handsome wooden staircase to a door with a brass   
 number eleven on it, which Tom unlocked and opened for him.  Inside was a very comfortable-looking bed, some highly polished oak  furniture, a cheerfully crackling fire and, perched on top of the  wardrobe   
 "Hedwig!" Harry gasped.   
 39   
  
 The snowy owl clicked her beak and fluttered down onto Harry's arm.   
"Very smart owl you've got there, chuckled Tom. "Arrived about five  minutes after you did. If there's anything you need, Mr. Potter, don't  hesitate to ask."   
He gave another bow and left.   
Harry sat on his bed for a long time, absentmindedly stroking Hedwig.  The sky outside the window was changing rapidly from deep, velvety blue  to cold, steely gray and then, slowly, to pink shot with gold. Harry  could hardly believe that he'd left Privet Drive only a few hours ago,  that he wasn't expelled, and that he was now facing two completely  Dursley-free weeks.   
"It's been a very weird night, Hedwig," he yawned.   
And without even removing his glasses, he slumped back onto his pillows  and fell asleep.   
CHAPTER FOUR   
THE LEAKY CAULDRON   
It took Harry several days to get used to his strange new freedom. Never  before had he been able to get up whenever he wanted or eat whatever he  fancied. He could even go wherever he pleased, as long as it was in  Diagon Alley, and as this long cobbled street was packed with the most  fascinating wizarding shops in the world, Harry felt no desire to break  his word to Fudge and stray back into the Muggle world.   
Harry ate breakfast each morning in the Leaky Cauldron, where he liked  watching the other guests: funny little witches from the country, up for  a day's shopping; venerable-looking wizards arguing over the latest  article in Transfiguration Today; wild-looking warlocks; raucous dwarfs;  and once, what looked suspiciously like a hag, who ordered a plate of  raw liver from behind a thick woollen balaclava.   
After breakfast Harry would go out into the backyard, take out his wand,  tap the third brick from the left above the trash bit,, and stand back   
40   
  
 as the archway into Diagon Alley opened in the wall.   
Harry spent the long sunny days exploring the shops and eating under the  brightly colored umbrellas outside cafes, where his fellow diners were  showing one another their purchases ( " it , s a lunascope, old boy -no  more messing around with moon charts, see?") or else discussing the  case of Sirius Black ("personalty, I won't let any of the children out  alone until he's back in Azkaban"). Harry didn't have to do his homework  under the blankets by flashlight anymore; now he could sit in the bright  sunshine outside Florean Fortescue's Ice Cream Parlor, finishing all his  essays with occasional help from Florean Fortescue himself, who, apart  from knowing a great deal about medieval witch burnings, gave Harry free  sundaes every half an hour.   
Once Harry had refilled his money bag with gold Galleons, silver  Sickles, and bronze Knuts from his vault at Gringotts, he had to  exercise a lot of self-control not to spend the whole lot at once. He  had to keep reminding himself that he had five years to go at Hogwarts,  and how it would feel to ask the Dursleys for money for spellbooks, to  stop himself from buying a handsome set of solid gold Gobstones (a  wizarding game rather like marbles, in which the stones squirt a  nasty-smelling liquid into the other player's face when they lose a  point). He was sorely tempted, too, by the perfect, moving model of the  galaxy in a large glass ball, which would have meant he never had to  take another Astronomy lesson. But the thing that tested Harry's  resolution most appeared in his favorite shop, Quality Quidditch  Supplies, a week after he'd arrived at the Leaky Cauldron.   
Curious to know what the crowd in the shop was staring at, Harry edged  his way inside and squeezed in among the excited witches and wizards  until he glimpsed a newly erected podium, on which was mounted the most  magnificent broom he had ever seen in his life.   
"Just come out -- prototype --" a square-jawed wizard was telling his  companion.   
"It's the fastest broom in the world, isn't it, Dad?" squeaked a boy  younger than Harry, who was swinging off his father's arm.   
"Irish International Side's Just put in an order for seven of these   
41   
  
 beauties!" the proprietor of the shop told the crowd. "And they're  favorites for the World Cup!"   
A large witch in front of Harry moved, and he was able to read the sign  next to the broom:   
** THE FIREBOLT **   
THIS STATE-OF-THE-ART PACING BROOM SPORTS A STREAM-LINED,  SUPERFINE  HANDLE OF ASH, TREATED WITH A DIAMOND-HARD POLISH AND  HAND- NUMBERED  WITH ITS OWN REGISTRATION NUMBER. EACH INDIVIDUALLY  SELECTED BIRCH TWIG  IN THE BROOMTAIL HAS BEEN HONED TO AERODYNAMIC  PERFECTION, GIVING THE  FIREBOLT UNSURPASSABLE BALANCE AND PINPOINT PRECISION.  THE FIREBOLT HAS  AN ACCELERATION OF 150 MILES AN HOUR IN TEN SECONDS AND  INCORPORATES AN  UNBREAKABLE BRAKING CHARM. PRICE ON REQUEST.   
Price on request... Harry didn't like to think how much gold the  Firebolt would cost. He had never wanted anything as much in his whole  life -- but he had never lost a Quidditch match on his Nim bus Two  Thousand, and what was the point in emptying his Gringotts vault for the  Firebolt, when he had a very good broom already? Harry didn't ask for  the price, but he returned, almost every day after that, just to look at  the Firebolt.   
There were, however, things that Harry needed to buy. He went to the  Apothecary to replenish his store of potions ingredients, and as his  school robes were now several inches too short in the arm and leg, he  visited Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions and bought new ones. Most  important of all, he had to buy his new schoolbooks, which would include  those for his two new subjects, Care of Magical Creatures and  Divination.   
Harry got a surprise as he looked in at the bookshop window. Instead of  the usual display of gold- embossed spellbooks the size of paving slabs,   
42   
  
 there was a large iron cage behind the glass that held about a hundred  copies of The Monster Book of Monsters. Torn pages were flying  everywhere as the books grappled with each other, locked together in  furious wrestling matches and snapping aggressively.   
Harry pulled his booklist out of his pocket and consulted it for the  first time. The Monster Book of Monsters was listed as the required book  for Care of Magical Creatures. Now Harry understood why Hagrid had said  it would come in useful. He felt relieved; he had been wondering whether  Hagrid wanted help with some terrifying new pet.   
As Harry entered Flourish and Blotts, the manager came hurrying toward  him.   
"Hogwarts?" he said abruptly. "Come to get your new books?"   
"Yes," said Harry, "I need --"   
"Get out of the way," said the manager impatiently, brushing Harry  aside. He drew on a pair of very thick gloves, picked up a large,  knobbly walking stick, and proceeded toward the door of the Monster  Books' cage.   
"Hang on," said Harry quickly, "I've already got one of those."   
"Have you?" A look of enormous relief spread over the manager's face.  "Thank heavens for that. I've been bitten five times already this  morning --"   
A loud ripping noise rent the air; two of the Monster Books had seized a  third and were pulling it apart.   
"Stop it! Stop it!" cried the manager, poking the walking stick through  the bars and knocking the books apart. "I'm never stocking them again,  never! It's been bedlam! I thought we'd seen the worst when we bought  two hundred copies of the Invisible Book of Invisibility -cost a  fortune, and we never found them.... Well... is there anything else I  can help you with?"   
"Yes," said Harry, looking down his booklist, "I need Unfogging the   
43   
  
 Future by Cassandra Vablatsky."   
"Ah, starting Divination, are you?" said the manager, stripping off his  gloves and leading Harry into the back of the shop, where there was a  corner devoted to fortune-telling. A small table was stacked with  volumes such as Predicting the Unpredictable: Insulate Yourself Against  Shocks and Broken Balls: When Fortunes Turn Foul.   
"Here you are,,' said the manager, who had climbed a set of steps to  take down a thick, black- bound book. "Unfogging the Future. Very good  guide to all your basic fortune-telling methods - palmistry, crystal  balls, bird entrails.   
But Harry wasn't listening. His eyes had fallen on another book, which  was among a display on a small table: Death Omens.- What to Do When You  Know the Worst Is Coming.   
"Oh, I wouldn't read that if I were you," said the manager lightly,  looking to see what Harry was staring at. "You'll start seeing death  omens everywhere. It's enough to frighten anyone to death. "   
But Harry continued to stare at the front cover of the book; it showed a  black dog large as a bear, with gleaming eyes. It looked oddly  familiar...   
The manager pressed Unfogging the Future into Harry's hands.   
"Anything else?" he said.   
"Yes," said Harry, tearing his eyes away from the dog's and dazedly  consulting his booklist. "Er -- I need Intermediate Transfiguration and  The Standard Book of Spells, Grade Three."   
Harry emerged from Flourish and Blotts ten minutes later with his new  books under his arms and made his way back to the Leaky Cauldron, hardly  noticing where he was going and bumping into several people.   
He tramped up the stairs to his room, went inside, and tipped his books  onto his bed. Somebody had been in to tidy; the windows were open and  sun was pouring inside. Harry could hear the buses rolling by in the   
44   
  
 unseen Muggle street behind him and the sound of the invisible crowd  below in Diagon Alley. He caught sight of himself in the mirror over the  basin.   
"It can't have been a death omen," he told his reflection defiantly. "I  was panicking when I saw that thing in Magnolia Crescent.... It was  probably just a stray dog...."   
He raised his hand automatically and tried to make his hair lie flat   
"You're fighting a losing battle there, dear," said his mirror in a  vvheezy voice.   
As the days slipped by, Harry started looking wherever he went for a  sign of Ron or Hermione. Plenty of Hogwarts students were arriving in  Diagon Alley now, with the start of term so near. Harry met Seamus  Finnigan and Dean Thomas, his fellow Gryffindors, in Quality Quidditch  Supplies, where they too were ogling the Firebolt; he also ran into the  real Neville Longbottom, a round-faced, forgetful boy, outside Flourish  and Blotts. Harry didn't stop to chat; Neville appeared to have mislaid  his booklist and was being told off by his very formidable-looking  grandmother. Harry hoped she never found out that he'd pretended to be  Neville while on the run from the Ministry of Magic.   
Harry woke on the last day of the holidays, thinking that he would at  least meet Ron and Hermione tomorrow, on the Hogwarts Express. He got  up, dressed, went for a last look at the Firebolt, and was just  wondering where he'd have lunch, when someone yelled his name and he  turned.   
"Harry! HARRY!"   
They were there, both of them, sitting outside Florean Fortescue's Ice  Cream Parlor -- Ron looking incredibly freckly, Her,,one very brown,  both waving frantically at him.   
"Finally!" said Ron, grinning at Harry as he sat down. "We went to the  Leaky Cauldron, but they said you'd left, and we went to Flourish and  Blotts, and Madam Malkin's, and --"   
45   
  
 "I got all my school stuff last week," Harry explained. "And how come  You knew I'm staying at the Leaky Cauldron?" "Dad," said Ron simply.   
 Mr. Weasley, who worked at the Ministry of Magic, would of course have  heard the whole story of what had happened to Aunt Marge.   
 "Did you really blow up your aunt, Harry?" said Hermione in a very  serious voice.   
 "I didn't mean to," said Harry, while Ron roared with laughter. "I just  -- lost control."   
 "It's not funny, Ron," said Hermione sharply. "Honestly, I'm amazed  Harry wasn't expelled."   
 "So am I," admitted Harry. "Forget expelled, I thought I was going to be  arrested." He looked at Ron. "Your dad doesn't know why Fudge let me  off, does he?"   
 "Probably 'cause it's you, isn't it?" shrugged Ron, still chuckling.  "Famous Harry Potter and all that. I'd hate to see what the Ministry'd  do to me if I blew up an aunt. Mind you, they'd have to dig me up first,  because Mum would've killed me. Anyway, you can ask Dad yourself this  evening. We're staying at the Leaky Cauldron tonight too! So you can  come to King's Cross with us tomorrow! Hermione's there as well!"   
 Hermione nodded, beaming. "Mum and Dad dropped me off this morning with  all my Hogwarts things."   
 "Excellent!" said Harry happily. "So, have you got all your new books  and stuff?"   
 "Look at this," said Ron, pulling a long thin box out of a bag and  opening it. "Brand-new wand. Fourteen inches, willow, containing one  unicorn tail-hair. And we've got all our books --" He pointed at a large  bag under his chair. "What about those Monster Books, eh? The assistant  nearly cried when we said we wanted two."   
 "What's all that, Hermione?" Harry asked, pointing at not one but three   
 46   
  
 bulging bags in the chair next to her.   
,,Well, I'm taking more new subjects than you, aren't IF' said Hermione.  "Those are my books for Arithmancy, Care of Magical Creatures,  Divination, the Study of Ancient Runes, Muggle Studies --"   
"What are you doing Muggle Studies for?" said Ron, rolling his eyes at  Harry. "You're Muggle- born! Your mum and dad are Muggles! You already  know all about Muggles!"   
"But it'll be fascinating to study them from the wizarding point of  view," said Hermione earnestly.   
"Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year, Hermione?" asked  Harry, while Ron sniggered. Hermione ignored them.   
"I've still got ten Galleons," she said, checking her purse. "It's my  birthday in September, and Mum and Dad gave me some money to get myself  an early birthday present."   
"How about a nice book? said Ron innocently.   
"No, I don't think so," said Hermione composedly. "I really want an owl.  I mean, Harry's got Hedwig and you've got Errol --"   
"I haven't," said Ron. "Errol's a family owl. All I've got is Scabbers."  He pulled his pet rat out of his pocket. "And I want to get him checked  over," he added, placing Scabbers on the table in front of them. "I  don't think Egypt agreed with him."   
Scabbers was looking thinner than usual, and there was a definite droop  to his whiskers.   
"There's a magical creature shop just over there," said Harry, who knew  Diagon Alley very well by now. "You could see if they've got anything  for Scabbers, and Hermione can get her owl,"   
So they paid for their ice cream and crossed the street to the Magical  Menagerie.   
47   
  
 There wasn't much room inside. Every inch of wall was hidden by cages.  It was smelly and very noisy because the occupants Of these cages were  all squeaking, squawking, jabbering, or hissing. The witch behind the  counter was already advising a wizard on the care of double-ended newts,  so Harry, Ron, and Hermione waited, examining the cages.   
A pair of enormous purple toads sat gulping wetly and feasting on dead  blowflies. A gigantic tortoise with a jewel-encrusted shell was  glittering near the window. Poisonous orange snails were oozing slowly  up the side of their glass tank, and a fat white rabbit kept changing  into a silk top hat and back again with a loud popping noise. Then there  were cats of every color, a noisy cage of ravens, a basket of funny  custard-colored furballs that were humming loudly, and on the counter, a  vast cage of sleek black rats that were playing some sort of skipping  game using their long, bald tails.   
The double-ended newt wizard left, and Ron approached the counter.   
"It's my rat," he told the witch. "He been a bit off-color ever since I  brought him back from Egypt."   
"Bang him on the counter," said the witch, pulling a pair of heavy black  spectacles out of her pocket.   
Ron lifted Scabbers out of his inside pocket and placed him next to the  cage of his fellow rats, who stopped their skipping tricks and scuffled  to the wire for a better took.   
Like nearly everything Ron owned, Scabbers the rat was secondhand (he  had once belonged to Ron's brother Percy) and a bit battered. Next to  the glossy rats in the cage, he looked especially woebegone.   
"Hm," said the witch, picking up Scabbers. "How old is this rat?"   
"Dunno," said Ron. "Quite old. He used to belong to my brother."   
"What powers does he have?" said the witch, examining Scabbers closely.   
"Er --" The truth was that Scabbers had never shown the faintest trace  of interesting powers. The witchs eyes moved from Scabbers's tattered   
48   
  
 left ear to his front paw, which had a toe missing, and tutted loudly.   
"He's been through the mill, this one," she said.   
"He was like that when Percy gave him to me," said Ron defensively.   
"An ordinary common or garden rat like this can't be expected to live  longer than three years or so," said the witch. "Now, if you were  looking for something a bit more hard-wearing, you might like one of  these --"   
 She indicated the black rats, who promptly started skipping again. Ron  muttered, "Show-offs."   
 "Well, if you Don't want a replacement, you can try this rat tonic,"  said the witch, reaching under the counter and bringing out a small red  bottle.   
 "Okay," said Ron. "How much -- OUCH!"   
 Ron buckled as something huge and orange came soaring from the top of  the highest cage, landed on his head, and then propelled itself,  spitting madly, at Scabbers.   
 "NO, CROOKSHANKS, NO!" cried the witch, but Scabbers, shot from between  her hands like a bar of soap, landed splay-legged on the floor, and then  scampered for the door.   
 "Scabbers!" Ron shouted, racing out of the shop after him; Harry  followed.   
 It took them nearly ten minutes to catch Scabbers, who had taken refuge  under a wastepaper bin outside Quality Quidditch Supplies. Ron stuffed  the trembling rat back into his pocket and straightened up, massaging  his head.   
 "What was that?"   
 "It was either a very big cat or quite a small tiger," said Harry.   
 49   
  
 "Where's Hermione?"   
"Probably getting her owl   
They made their way back up the crowded street to the Magical Menagerie.  As they reached it, Hermione came out, but she wasn't carrying an owl.  Her arms were clamped tightly around the enormous ginger cat.   
"You bought that monster?" said Ron, his mouth hanging open.   
"He's gorgeous, isn't he?" said Hermione, glowing.   
That was a matter of opinion, thought Harry. The cat's ginger fur was  thick and fluffy, but it was definitely a bit bowlegged and its face  looked grumpy and oddly squashed, as though it had run headlong into a  brick wall. Now that Scabbers was out of sight, however, the cat was  purring contentedly in Hermione's arms.   
"Herinione, that thing nearly scalped me!" said Ron.   
"He didn't mean to, did you, Crookshanks?" said Hermione.   
"And what about Scabbers?" said Ron, pointing at the lump in his chest  pocket. "He needs rest and relaxation! How's he going to get it with  that thing around?"   
"That reminds me, you forgot your rat tonic," said Hermione, slapping  the small red bottle into Ron's hand. "And stop worrying, Crookshanks  will be sleeping in my dormitory and Scabbers in yours, what's the  problem? Poor Crookshanks, that witch said he'd been in there for ages;  no one wanted him."   
"Wonder why," said Ron sarcastically as they set off toward the Leaky  Cauldron.   
They found Mr. Weasley sitting in the bar, reading the Daily prophet.   
"Harry!" he said, smiling as he looked up. "How are you?"   
"Fine, thanks," said Harry as he, Ron, and Hermione joined Mr. Weasley   
50   
  
 with A their shopping.   
Mr. Weasley put down his paper, and Harry saw the now familiar picture  of Sirius Black staring up at him.   
"They still haven't caught him, then?" he asked.   
"No," said Mr. Weasley, looking extremely grave. "They've pulled us all  off our regular jobs at the Ministry to try and find him, but no luck so  far."   
"Would we get a reward if we caught him?" asked Ron. "It'd be good to  get some more money --"   
"Don't be ridiculous, Ron," said Mr. Weasley, who on closer inspection  looked very strained. "Black's not going to be caught by a  thirteen-year-old wizard. It's the Azkaban guards who'll get him back,  You mark my words."   
At that moment Mrs. Weasley entered the bar, laden with shopping bags  and followed by the twins, Fred and George, who were about to start  their fifth year at Hogwarts; the newly elected Head Boy, Percy; and the  Weasleys' youngest child and only girl, Ginny.   
Ginny, who had always been very taken with Harry, seemed even more  heartily embarrassed than usual when she saw him, perhaps because he had  saved her life during their previous year at Hogwarts. She went very red  and muttered "hello" without looking at him. Percy, however, held out  his hand solemnly as though he and Harry had never met and said, "Harry.  How nice to see you.   
"Hello, Percy," said Harry, trying not to laugh.   
I hope you're well?" said Percy pompously, shaking hands. It was rather  like being introduced to the mayor.   
"Very well, thanks --"   
"Harry!" said Fred, elbowing Percy out of the way and bowing deeply.  "Simply splendid to see you, old boy --"   
51   
  
 "Marvelous," said George, pushing Fred aside and seizing Harry's hand in  turn. "Absolutely spiffing."  Percy scowled.   
 "That's enough, now," said Mrs. Weasley.  "Mum!" said Fred as though he'd only just spotted her and seizing her  hand too. "How really corking to see you --"   
 "I said, that's enough," said Mrs. Weasley, depositing her shopping in  an empty chair. "Hello, Harry, dear. I suppose you've heard our exciting  news?" She pointed to the brand-new silver badge on Percy's chest.  "Second Head Boy in the family!" she said, swelling with pride.   
"And last," Fred muttered under his breath.   
I don't doubt that," said Mrs. Weasley, frowning suddenly. "I notice  they haven't made you two prefects."  "What do we want to be prefects for?" said George, looking revolted at   
the very idea. "It'd take all the fun out of life."  Ginny giggled.  "Yo u want to set a better example for your sister!" snapped Mrs.   
 Weasley.   
 "Ginny's got other brothers to set her an example, Mother," said Percy  loftily. "I'm going up to change for dinner..."  He disappeared and George heaved a sigh.  "We tried to shut him in a pyramid," he told Harry. "But Mum spotted   
 us."  Dinner that night was a very enjoyable affair. Tom the innkeeper put  three tables together in the parlor, and the seven Weasleys, Harry, and  Hermione ate their way through five delicious courses.   
 52   
  
 "How're we getting to King's Cross tomorrow, Dad?" asked Fred as they  dug into a sumptuous chocolate pudding.  "The Ministry's providing a couple of cars," said Mr. Weasley.  Everyone looked up at him.   
 "Why?" said Percy curiously.  "It's because of you, Perce," said George seriously. "And there'll be  little flags on the hoods, with HB on them"   
 "-- for Humongous Bighead," said Fred.  Everyone except Percy and Mrs. Weasley snorted into their pudding.  "Why are the Ministry providing cars, Father?" Percy asked again, in a   
 dignified voice.  "Well, as we haven't got one anymore," said Mr. Weasley,  "-- and as I work there, they're doing me a favor --"  His voice was casual, but Harry couldn't help noticing that Mr.   
 Weasley's ears had gone red, just like Ron's did when he was under   
 Pressure.  "Good thing, too," said Mrs. Weasley briskly. "Do you realize how much  luggage you've all got between you? A nice sight you'd be on the Muggle  Underground.... You are all packed, aren't you?"   
 "Ron hasn't put all his new things in his trunk yet," said Percy, in a   
 long-suffering voice. "He's dumped them on my bed."  "You'd better go and pack properly, Ron, because we won't have much time  in the morning," Mrs. Weasley called down the table. Ron scowled at  Percy.   
 After dinner everyone felt very full and sleepy. One by one they made   
 53   
  
 their way upstairs to their rooms to check their things for the next  day. Ron and Percy were next door to Harry. He had just closed and  locked his own trunk when he heard angry voices through the wall, and  went to see what was going on.   
The door of number twelve was ajar and Percy was shouting.   
"It was here, on the bedside table, I took it off for polishing   
"I haven't touched it, all right?" Ron roared back.   
"What's up?" said Harry.   
"My Head Boy badge is gone," said Percy, rounding on Harry.   
"So's Scabbers's rat tonic," said Ron, throwing things out of his trunk  to look. "I think I might've left it in the bar --"   
"You're not going anywhere till you've found my badge!" yelled Percy.   
"I'll get Scabbers's stuff, I'm packed," Harry said to Ron, and he went  downstairs.   
Harry was halfway along the passage to the bar, which was now very dark,  when he heard another pair of angry voices coming from the parlor. A  second later, he recognized them as Mr. and Mrs.   
Weasleys'. He hesitated, not wanting them to know he'd heard them  arguing, when the sound of his own name made him stop, then move closer  to the parlor door.   
"--makes no sense not to tell him," Mr. Weasley was saying heatedly.  "Harry's got a right to know. I've tried to tell Fudge, but he insists  on treating Harry like a child. He's thirteen years old and --"   
"Arthur, the truth would terrify him!" said Mrs. Weasley shrilly. "Do  you really want to send Harry back to school with that hanging over him?  For heaven's sake, he's happy not knowing!"   
"I don't want to make him miserable, I want to put him on his guard!"   
54   
  
 retorted Mr. Weasley. "You know what Harry and Ron are like, wandering  off by themselves -- they've ended up in the Forbidden Forest twice! But  Harry mustn't do that this year! When I think what could have happened  to him that night he ran away from home! If the Knight Bus hadn't picked  him up, I'm prepared to bet he would have been dead before the Ministry  found him."   
"But he's not dead, he's fine, so what's the point   
"Molly, they say Sirius Black's mad, and maybe he is, but he was clever  enough to escape from Azkaban, and that's supposed to be impossible.  It's been three weeks, and no one's seen hide nor hair of him, and I  don't care what Fudge keeps telling the Daily Prophet, we're no nearer  catching Black than inventing self-spelling wands. The only thing we  know for sure is what Black's after   
"But Harry will be perfectly safe at Hogwarts."   
"We thought Azkaban was perfectly safe. If Black can break out of  Azkaban, he can break into Hogwarts."   
"But no one's really sure that Black's after Harry   
There was a thud on wood, and Harry was sure Mr. Weasley had banged his  fist on the table.   
"Molly, how many times do I have to tell you? They didn't report it in  the press because Fudge wanted it kept quiet, but Fudge went out to  Azkaban the night Black escaped. The guards told Fudge that Blacks been  talking in his sleep for a while now. Always the same words: 'He's at  Hogwarts... he's at Hogwarts.' Black is deranged, Molly, and he wants  Harry dead. If you ask me, he thinks murdering Harry will bring  You-Know-Who back to pow er. Black lost everything the night Harry  stopped You- Know-Who, and he's had twelve years alone in Azkaban to  brood on that...."   
There was a silence. Harry leaned still closer to the door, desperate to  hear more.   
"Well, Arthur, you must do what you think is right. But you're   
55   
  
 forgetting Albus Dumbledore. I don't think anything could hurt Harry at  Hogwarts while Dumbledore's headmaster. I suppose he knows about all  this?"   
"Of course he knows. We had to ask him if he minds the Azkaban guards  stationing themselves around the entrances to the school grounds. He  wasn't happy about it, but he agreed."   
"Not happy? Why shouldn't he be happy, if they're there to catch Black?"   
"Dumbledore isn't fond of the Azkaban guards," said Mr. Weasley heavily.  "Nor am 1, if it comes to that... but when you're dealing with a wizard  like Black, you sometimes have to join forces with those you'd rather  avoid."   
"If they save Harry then I will never say another word against them,  said Mr. Weasley wearily. "It's late, Molly, we'd better go up...."   
Harry heard chairs move. As quietly as he could, he hurried down the  passage to the bar and out of sight. The parlor door opened, and a few  seconds later footsteps told him that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were climbing  the stairs.   
The bottle of rat tonic was lying under the table they had sat at  earlier. Harry waited until he heard Mr. and Mrs. Weasley's bedroom door  close, then headed back upstairs with the bottle.   
Fred and George were crouching in the shadows on the landing, heaving  with laughter as they listened to Percy dismantling his and Ron's room  in search of his badge.   
"We've got it," Fred whispered to Harry. "We've been improving it."   
The badge now read Bighead Boy.   
Harry forced a laugh, went to give Ron the rat tonic, then shut himself  in his room and lay down on his bed.   
So Sirius Black was after him. This explained everything. Fudge had been  lenient with him because he was so relieved to find him alive. He'd made   
56   
  
 Harry promise to stay in Diagon Alley where there were plenty of wizards  to keep an eye on him. And he was sending two Ministry cars to take them  all to the station tomorrow, so that the Weasleys could look after Harry  until he was on the train.   
Harry lay listening to the muffled shouting next door and wondered why  he didn't feel more scared. Sirius Black had murdered thirteen people  with one curse; Mr. and Mrs, Weasley obviously thought Harry would be  panic-stricken if he knew the truth. But Harry happened to agree  wholeheartedly with Mrs. Weasley that the safest place on earth was  wherever Albus Dumbledore happened to be. Didn't people always say that  Dumbledore was the only person Lord Voldemort had ever been afraid of?  Surely Black, as Voldemort's right-hand man, would be just as frightened  of him?   
And then there were these Azkaban guards everyone kept talking about.  They seemed to scare most people senseless, and if they were stationed  all around the school, Black's chances of getting inside seemed very  remote.   
No, all in all, the thing that bothered Harry most was the fact that his  chances of visiting Hogsmeade now looked like zero. Nobody would want  Harry to leave the safety of the castle until Black was caught; in fact,  Harry suspected his every move would be carefully watched until the  danger had passed.   
He scowled at the dark ceiling. Did they think he couldn't look after  himself? He'd escaped Lord Voldemort three times; he wasn't completely  useless....   
Unbidden, the image of the beast in the shadows of Magnolia Crescent  crossed his mind. What to do when you know the worst is coming...   
"I'm not going to be murdered," Harry said out loud.   
"That's the spirit, dear," said his mirror sleepily.   
CHAPTER FIVE   
THE DEMENTOR   
57   
  
 Tom woke Harry the next morning with his usual toothless grin and a cup  of tea. Harry got dressed and was just persuading a disgruntled Hedwig  to get back into her cage when Ron banged his way into the room, pulling  a sweatshirt over his head and looking irritable.   
"The sooner we get on the train, the better," he said. "At least I can  get away from Percy at Hogwarts. Now he's accusing me of dripping tea on  his photo of Penelope Clearwater. You know," Ron grimaced, "his  girlfriend. She's hidden her face under the frame because her nose has  gone all blotchy..."   
"I've got something to tell you," Harry began, but they were interrupted  by Fred and George, who had looked in to congratulate Ron on infuriating  Percy again.   
They headed down to breakfast, where Mr. Weasley was reading the front  page of the Daily Prophet with a furrowed brow and Mrs. Weasley was  telling Hermione and Ginny about a love potion she'd made as a young  girl. All three of them were rather giggly.   
"What were you saying?" Ron asked Harry as they sat down.   
"Later," Harry muttered as Percy stormed in.   
Harry had no chance to speak to Ron or Hermione in the chaos of leaving;  they were too busy heaving all their trunks down the Leaky Cauldron's  narrow staircase and piling them up near the door, with Hedwig and  Hermes, Percy's screech owl, perched on top in their cages. A small  wickerwork basket stood beside the heap of trunks, spitting loudly.   
"It's all right, Crookshanks," Hermione cooed through the wickerwork.  "I'll let you out on the train."   
"You won't," snapped Ron. "What about poor Scabbers, eh?"   
He pointed at his chest, where a large lump indicated that Scabbers was  curled up in his pocket.   
Mr. Weasley, who had been outside waiting for the Ministry cars, stuck   
58   
  
 his head inside.   
"They're here, he said. "Harry, come on."   
Mr. Weasley marched Harry across the short stretch of pavement toward  the first of two old- fashioned dark green cars, each of which was  driven by a furtive-looking wizard wearing a suit of emerald velvet.   
"In you get, Harry," said Mr. Weasley, glancing up and down the crowded  street.   
Harry got into the back of the car and was shortly joined by Hermione,  Ron, and, to Ron's disgust, Percy.   
The journey to King's Cross was very uneventful compared with Harry's  trip on the Knight Bus. The Ministry of Magic cars seemed almost  ordinary. though Harry noticed that they could slide through gaps that  Uncle Vernon's new company car certainly couldn't have managed. They  reached King's Cross with twenty minutes to spare; the Ministry drivers  found them trolleys, unloaded their trunks, touched their hats in salute  to Mr. Weasley, and drove away, somehow managing to jump to the head of  an unmoving line at the traffic lights.   
Mr. Weasley kept close to Harry's elbow all the way into the station.   
"Right then," he said, glancing around them. "Let's do this in pairs, as  there are so many of us. I'll go through first with Harry."   
Mr. Weasley strolled toward the barrier between platforms nine and ten,  pushing Harry's trolley and apparently very interested in the InterCity  125 that had just arrived at platform nine. With a meaningful look at  Harry, he leaned casually against the barrier. Harry imitated him.   
In a moment, they had fallen sideways through the solid metal onto  platform nine and three- quarters and looked up to see the Hogwarts  Express, a scarlet steam engine, puffing smoke over a platform packed  with witches and wizards seeing their children onto the train.   
Percy and Ginny suddenly appeared behind Harry. They were panting and  had apparently taken the barrier at a run.   
59   
  
 "Ah, there's Penelope!" said Percy, smoothing his hair and going Pink  again. Ginny caught Harry's eye, and they both turned away to hide their  laughter as Percy strode over to a girl with long, curly hair, walking  with his chest thrown out so that she couldn't miss his shiny badge.  stood back to let him on. They leaned out of the window and waved at Mr.  and Mrs. Weasley until the train turned a corner and blocked them from  view.   
"I need to talk to you in private," Harry muttered to Ron and Hermione  as the train picked up speed.   
"Go away, Ginny," said Ron.   
"Oh, that's nice," said Ginny huffily, and she stalked off.   
Harry, Ron, and Hermione set off down the corridor, looking for an empty  compartment, but all were full except for the one at the very end of the  train.   
This had only one occupant, a man sitting fast asleep next to the  window. Harry, Ron, and Hermione checked on the threshold. The Hogwarts  Express was usually reserved for students and they had never seen an  adult there before, except for the witch who pushed the food cart.   
The stranger was wearing an extremely shabby set of wizard's robes that  had been darned in several places. He looked ill and exhausted. Though  quite young, his light brown hair was flecked with gray.   
"Who d'you reckon he is?" Ron hissed as they sat down and slid the door  shut, taking the seats farthest away from the window.   
"Professor R. J. Lupin," whispered Hermione at once.   
"How d'you know that?"   
"It's on his case," she replied, pointing at the luggage rack over the  man's head, where there was a small, battered case held together with a  large quantity of neatly knotted string. The name Professor R. J. Lupin  was stamped across one corner in peeling letters.   
60   
  
 "Wonder what he teaches?" said Ron, frowning at Professor Lupin's pallid  profile.   
"That's obvious," whispered Hermione. "There's only one vacancy, isn't  there? Defense Against the Dark Arts."   
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had already had two Defense Against the Dark  Arts teachers, both of whom had lasted only one year. There were rumors  that the job was jinxed.   
"well, I hope he's up to it," said Ron doubtfully. "He looks like on,  good hex would finish him off, doesn't he? Anyway..." He turned to  Harry. "What were you going to tell us?"   
Harry explained all about Mr. and Mrs. Weasley's argument and the  warning Mr. Weasley had just given him. \When he'd finished, Ron looked  thunderstruck, and Hermione had her hands over her mouth. She finally  lowered them to say, "Sirius Black escaped to come after you? Oh,  Harry... you'll have to be really, really careful. don't go looking for  trouble, Harry --"   
"I Don't go looking for trouble," said Harry, nettled. "Trouble usually  finds me."   
"How thick would Harry have to be, to go looking for a nutter who wants  to kill him?" said Ron shakily.   
They were taking the news worse than Harry had expected. Both Ron and  Hermione seemed to be much more frightened of Black than he was.   
"No one knows how he got out of Azkaban," said Ron uncomfortably. "No  one's ever done it before. And he was a top-security prisoner too."   
"But they'll catch him, won't they?" said Hermione earnestly. "I Mean,  they've got all the Muggles looking out for him too...." "What's that  noise?" said Ron suddenly.   
A faint, tinny sort of whistle was coming from somewhere. The, looked  all around the compartment.   
61   
  
 "It's coming from your trunk, Harry," said Ron, standing UP and reaching  into the luggage rack. A moment later he had pulled the Pocket  Sneakoscope out from between Harry's robes. It was spinning very fast in  the palm of Ron's hand and glowing brilliantly.   
"Is that a Sneakoscope?" said Hermione interestedly, standing up for a  better look.   
"Yeah... mind you, it's a very cheap one," Ron said. "It went haywire  just as I was tying it to Errol's leg to send it to Harry."   
"Were you doing anything untrustworthy at the time?" said Hermione  shrewdly.   
"No! Well... I wasn't supposed to be using Errol. You know he's not  really up to long journeys... but how else was I supposed to get Harry's  present to him?"   
"Stick it back in the trunk," Harry advised as the Sneakoscope whistled  piercingly, "or it'll wake him up."   
He nodded toward Professor Lupin. Ron stuffed the Sneakoscope into a  particularly horrible pair of Uncle Vernon's old socks, which deadened  the sound, then closed the lid of the trunk on it.   
"We could get it checked in Hogsmeade," said Ron, sitting back down.  "They sell that sort of thing in Dervish and Banges, magical instruments  and stuff. Fred and George told me."   
"Do you know much about Hogsmeade?" asked Hermione keenly. "I've read  it's the only entirely non-Muggle settlement in Britain --"   
"Yeah, I think it is," said Ron in an offhand sort of way.   
"But that's not Why I want to go. I just want to get inside Honey  Dukes."   
"What's that?" said Hermione.   
62   
  
 "It's this sweetshop," said Ron, a dreamy look coming over his face,  "where they've got everything... Pepper Imps -- they make you smoke at  the mouth -- and great fat Chocoballs full of strawberry mousse and  clotted cream, and really excellent sugar quills, which you can suck in  class and just look like you're thinking what to write next --"   
"But Hogsmeade's a very interesting place, isn't it?" Hermione pressed  on eagerly. "In Sites of Historical Sorcery it says the inn was the  headquarters for the 1612 goblin rebellion, and the Shrieking Shades  supposed to be the most severely haunted building in Britain --"   
"-- and massive sherbert balls that make you levitate a few inches off  the ground while you're sucking them," said Ron, who was plainly not  listening to a word Hermione was saying.   
Hermione looked around at Harry.   
"Won't it be nice to get out of school for a bit and explore Hogsmeade?"   
"'Spect it will," said Harry heavily. "You'll have to tell me when  You've found out."   
"What d'you mean?" said Ron.   
"I can't go. The Dursleys didn't sign my permission form, and Fudge  wouldn't either."   
Ron looked horrified.   
""You're not allowed to come? But -- no way -- McGonagall or someone  will give you permission -- " musclely; Crabbe was taller, with a  pudding-bowl haircut and a very thick neck; Goyle had short, bristly  hair and long, gorilla-ish arms.   
"Well, look who it is," said Malfoy in his usual lazy drawl, pulling  open the compartment door. "Potty and the Weasel."   
Crabbe and Goyle chuckled trollishly.   
"I heard your father finally got his hands on some gold this summer,   
63   
  
 Weasley," said Malfoy. "Did your mother die of shock?"   
 Ron stood up so quickly he knocked Crookshanks's basket to the floor.  Professor Lupin gave a snort.  "Who's that?" said Malfoy, taking an automatic step backward as he   
 spotted Lupin.   
 "New teacher," said Harry, who got to his feet, too, in case he needed  to hold Ron back. "What were you saying, Malfoy?"  Malfoy's pale eyes narrowed; he wasn't fool enough to pick a fight right   
 under a teacher's nose.   
 "C'mon," he muttered resentfully to Crabbe and Goyle, and they  disappeared.  Harry and Ron sat down again, Ron massaging his knuckles.  "I'm not going to take any crap from Malfoy this year," he said angrily.   
 "I mean it. If he makes one more crack about my family, I'm going to get  hold of his head and --"  Ron made a violent gesture in midair.  "Ron," hissed Hermione, pointing at Professor Lupin, "be careful..."   
 But Professor Lupin was still fast asleep.  The rain thickened as the train sped yet farther north; the windows were  now a solid, shimmering gray, which graduily darkened until lanterns  flickered into life all along the corridors and over the luggage racks.  The train rattled, the rain hammered, the ind roared, but still,  Professor Lupin slept.   
 "We must be nearly there," said Ron, leaning forward to look past  Professor Lupin at the now completely black window.  The words had hardly left him when the train started to slow down.   
 64   
  
 "Great," said Ron, getting up and walking carefully past Professor Lupin  to try and see outside. "I'm starving. I want to get to the feast....  "We can't be there yet," said Hermione, checking her watch.   
 "So why're we stopping?"  The train was getting slower and slower. As the noise of the pistons  fell away, the wind and rain sounded louder than ever against the  windows.   
 Harry, who was nearest the door, got up to look into the corridor. All  along the carriage, heads were sticking curiously out of their  compartments.   
 The train came to a stop with a jolt, and distant thuds and bangs told  them that luggage had fallen out of the racks. Then, without warning,  all the lamps went out and they were plunged into total darkness.   
 "'What's going on?" said Ron's voice from behind Harry.  "Ouch!" gasped Hermione. "Ron, that was my foot!"  Harry felt his way back to his seat.  "D'you think we've broken down?"  "Dunno..."  There was a squeaking sound, and Harry saw the dim black outline of Ron,   
 wiping a patch clean on the window and peering out.   
 "There's something moving out there," Ron said. "I think people are  coming aboard...."  The compartment door suddenly opened and someone fell painfully over   
Harry's legs.  "Sorry -- d'you know what's going on? -- Ouch -- sorry   
 65   
  
 "Hullo, Neville," said Harry, feeling around in the dark and pulling  Neville up by his cloak.  "Harry? Is that you? What's happening?"   
 "No idea -- sit down --"  There was a loud hissing and a yelp of pain; Neville had tried to sit on  Crookshanks.   
 "I'm going to go and ask the driver what's going on," came Hermione's  voice. Harry felt her pass him, heard the door slide open again, and  then a thud and two loud squeals of pain.   
"Who's that?"  "Who's that?"  "Ginny?"  "Hermione?"  "What are you doing?"  "I was looking for Ron --" "Come in and sit down --"  "Not here!" said Harry hurriedly. "I'm here!"  "Ouch!" said Neville.  "Quiet!" said a hoarse voice suddenly.  Professor Lupin appeared to have woken up at last. Harry could hear   
 movements in his corner.  None of them spoke.  There was a soft, crackling noise, and a shivering light filled the   
 compartment. Professor Lupin appeared to be holding a handful of flames.  They illuminated his tired, gray face, but his eyes looked alert and   
66   
  
 wary.   
"Stay where you are," he said in the same hoarse voice, and he got  slowly to his feet with his handful of fire held out in front of him.   
But the door slid slowly open before Lupin could reach it.   
Standing in the doorway, illuminated by the shivering flames in Lupin's  hand, was a cloaked figure that towered to the ceiling. Its face was  completely hidden beneath its hood. Harry's eyes darted downward, and  what he saw made his stomach contract. There was a hand protruding from  the cloak and it was glistening, grayish, slimy-looking, and scabbed,  like something dead that had decayed in water...   
But it was visible only for a split second. As though the creature  beneath the cloak sensed Harry's gaze, the hand was suddenly withdrawn  into the folds of its black cloak.   
And then the thing beneath the hood, whatever it was, drew a long, slow,  rattling breath, as though it were trying to suck something more than  air from its surroundings.   
An intense cold swept over them all. Harry felt his own breath catch in  his chest. The cold went deeper than his skin. It was inside his chest,  it was inside his very heart....   
Harry's eyes rolled up into his head. He couldn't see. He was drowning  in cold. There was a rushing in his ears as though of water. He was  being dragged downward, the roaring growing louder. .   
And then, from far away, he heard screaming, terrible, terrified,  pleading screams. He wanted to help whoever it was, he tried to move his  arms, but couldn't... a thick white fog was swirling around him, inside  him   
 "Harry! Harry! Are you all right?"   
Someone was slapping his face.   
"W -- what?"   
67   
  
 Harry opened his eyes; there were lanterns above him, and the floor was  shaking -- the Hogwarts Express was moving again and the lights had come  back on. He seemed to have slid out of his seat onto the floor. Ron and  Hermione were kneeling next to him, and above them he could see Neville  and Professor Lupin watching. Harry felt very sick; when he put up his  hand to push his glasses back on, he felt cold sweat on his face.   
Ron and Hermione heaved him back onto his seat.  "Are you okay?" Ron asked nervously.  "Yeah," said Harry, looking quickly toward the door. The hooded creature   
 had vanished. "What happened? Where's that -- that thing? Who screamed?"  "No one screamed," said Ron, more nervously still.  Harry looked around the bright compartment. Ginny and Neville looked   
 back at him, both very pale.  "But I heard screaming --"  A loud snap made them all jump. Professor Lupin was breaking an enormous   
 slab of chocolate into pieces.   
 "Here," he said to Harry, handing him a particularly large piece. "Eat  it. It'll help."  Harry took the chocolate but didn't eat it.  "What was that thing?" he asked Lupin.  "A dementor," said Lupin, who was now giving chocolate to everyone else.   
 "One of the dementors of Azkaban."   
 Everyone stared at him. Professor Lupin crumpled up the empty chocolate  wrapper and put it in his pocket.  "Eat," he repeated. "It'll help. I need to speak to the driver, excuse   
me...   
68   
  
 He strolled past Harry and disappeared into the corridor.   
"Are you sure you're okay, Harry?" said Hermione, watching Harry  anxiously.   
"I Don't get it.... What happened?" said Harry, wiping more sweat off  his face.   
"Well -- that thing -- the dementor -- stood there and looked around (I  mean, I think it did, I couldn't see its face) -- and you -- you   
"I thought you were having a fit or something," said Ron, who still  looked scared. "You went sort of rigid and fell out of your seat and  started twitching -- 11   
"And Professor Lupin stepped over you, and walked toward the dementor,  and pulled out his wand," said Hermione, "and he said, 'None of us is  hiding Sirius Black under our cloaks. Go.' But the dementor didn't move,  so Lupin muttered something, and a silvery thing shot out of his wand at  it, and it turned around and sort of glided away.... " "It was horrible," said Neville, in a higher voice than usual. "Did YOU  feel how cold it got when it came in?"   
I felt weird," said Ron, shifting his shoulders uncomfortably. "Like I'd  never be cheerful again...."   
Ginny, who was huddled in her corner looking nearly as bad as Harry  felt, gave a small sob; Hermione went over and put a comforting arm  around her.   
"But didn't any of you -- fall off your seats?" said Harry awkwardly.   
"No," said Ron, looking anxiously at Harry again. "Ginny was shaking  like mad, though...."   
Harry didn't understand. He felt weak and shivery, as though he were  recovering from a bad bout of flu; he also felt the beginnings of shame.  Why had he gone to pieces like that, when no one else had?   
69   
  
 Professor Lupin had come back. He paused as he entered, looked around,  and said, with a small smile, "I haven't poisoned that chocolate, you  know...."   
Harry took a bite and to his great surprise felt warmth spread suddenly  to the tips of his fingers and toes.   
"We'll be at Hogwarts in ten minutes," said Professor Lupin. "Are you  all right, Harry?"   
Harry didn't ask how Professor Lupin knew his name.   
"Fine," he muttered, embarrassed.   
They didn't talk much during the remainder of the journey. At long last,  the train stopped at Hogsmeade station, and there was a great scramble  to get outside; owls hooted, cats meowed, and Neville's pet toad croaked  loudly from under his hat. It was freezing on the tiny platform; rain  was driving down in icy sheets.   
"Firs' years this way!" called a familiar voice. Harry, Ron, and  Hermione turned and saw the gigantic outline of Hagrid at the other end  of the platform, beckoning the terrified-looking new students forward  for their traditional journey across the lake.   
"All right, you three?" Hagrid yelled over the heads of the crowd. They  waved at him, but had no chance to speak to him because the mass of  people around them was shunting them away along the platform. Harry,  Ron, and Hermione followed the rest of the school along the platform and  out onto a rough mud track, where at least a hundred stagecoaches  awaited the remaining students, each pulled, Harry could only assume, by  an invisible horse, because when they climbed inside and shut the door,  the coach set off all by itself, bumping and swaying in procession.   
The coach smelled faintly of mold and straw. Harry felt better since the  chocolate, but still weak. Ron and Hermione kept looking at him  sideways, as though frightened he might collapse again.   
As the carriage trundled toward a pair of magnificent wrought iron   
70   
  
  
