HarryPotter and the Deathly Hallows    Chapter  1    The  Dark  Lord  Ascending    T T he two men appeared out of nowhere, a few yards apart in the narrow,  moonlit lane. For a second they stood quite still, wands directed  at each other’s chests; then, recognizing each other , they  stowed their wands beneath their cloaks and started walking briskly in the  same direction.  “News?” asked the taller of the two.  ”The best,” replied Severus Snape.   The lane was bordered on the left by wild, low-growing brambles, on the  rightbya high, nearly manicured hedge. The men’s longcloaks flapped around  their ankles as they marched.   “ThoughtImightbe late,” saidYaxley, his bluntfeatures slidingin and out  of sight as the branches of overhanging tress broke the moonlight. “It was  a little trickier than I expected. But I hope he will be satisfied. You should  confident that your reception will be good?”   Snape nodded, but did not elaborate. They turned right, into a wide drivewaythat  led off the lane. The high hedge curved into them, running off into the  distance beyond the pair of impressive wrought-iron gates barring the men’s  way. Neither of them broke step; In silence both raised their left arms in a  kind of salute and passed straight through, as though the dark metal were   7   
 CHAPTER  1.  THE  DARK  LORD  ASCENDING    smoke.   The yew hedges muffled the sound of the men’s footsteps. There was a  rustle somewhereto their right;Yaxley drewhiswand again, pointingit over  his companion’s head, but the source of the noise proved to be nothing more  than a pure-white peacock, strutting majestically along the top of the hedge.   “He always did himself well, Lucius. Peacocks... ”Yaxley thrust hiswand  backunder his cloak with a snort.   Ahandsome manorhousegrewoutofthe darknessattheendofthestraight  drive, lights glinting in the diamond-paned downstairs windows. Somewhere  in the dark garden beyond the hedge a fountain was playing. Gravel crackled  beneath their feet as Snape andYaxley sped toward the front door, which  swung inward at their approach, though nobody had visibly opened it.   The hallway was large, dimly light, and sumptuously decorated, with a  magnificent carpet covering most of the stone floor. The eyes of the pale-faced  portraits on thewalls followed Snape andYaxley as they strode past. The two  men halted at a heavy wooden door leading into the next room, hesitated for  the space of a heartbeat, then Snape turned the bronze handle.   The drawing room was full of silent people, sitting at a long and ornate  table. The room’s usual furniture had been pushed carelessly up against the  walls. Illumination came froma roaring fire beneatha handsome marble mantelpiece  surmountedbya gilded mirror. Snape andYaxley lingered fora moment  on the threshold. As their eyes grew accustomed to the lackof light, they  were drawn upward to the strangest feature of the scenes an apparently unconscious  human figure hanging upside down over the table, revolving slowly as  if suspended by an invisible rope, and reflected in the mirror and in the bare,  polished surface of the table below it. He seemed unable to prevent himself  from glancing upward every minute or so.   “Yaxley, Snape,” said a high, clear voice from the head of the table. “You are  very nearly late.”   The speaker was seated directly in front of the fireplace, so thatit was difficult,  at first, for the new arrivals to make out more than his silhouette. As they   
 drew nearer, however, this face shone through the gloom, hairless, snakelike,  with slits for nostrils and gleaming red eyes whose pupils were vertical. He  was so pale that he seemed to emit a pearly glow.   “Severus, here,” saidVoldemort, indication the seat on his immediate right.  “Yaxley—beside Dolohov.”   The two men took their allotted places. Most of the eyes around the table  followedSnape,anditwastohimthatVoldemortspoke first.   “So?”   “My Lord, the Order of the Phoenix intends to move HarryPotter from his  current place of safety on Saturdaynext, at nightfall.”   The interest around the table sharpened palpably; Some stiffened, others  fidgeted, all gazing at Snape andVoldemort.   “Saturday ...at nightfall,” repeatedVoldemort.Hisredeyes fastenedupon  Snape’s black ones with suchintensity that some of the watchers looked away,  apparently fearful that they themselves would be scorched by the ferocity of  the gaze. Snape, however, looked calmly backintoVoldemort’s face and, aftera  moment or two.Voldemort’s lipless mouth curved into something likea smile.   “Good. very good. And this information comes—”   “—from the source we discussed,” said Snape.   “My Lord.”   Yaxley had leaned forward to look down the long table at Voldemort and  Snape. All faces turned to him.   “My Lord,Ihave heard differently,”   Yaxleywaited butVoldemort did not speak, sohe went on, “Dawlish, the  Auror,letslipthatPotterwillnotbemoveduntilthe thirtieth,thenightbefore  the boy turns seventeen.”   Snape was smiling,   “My source told me that there are plans to lay a false trail; this must be it.  No doubt a Confundus Charm has been placed upon Dawlish. It would not be  the first time; he is known to be susceptible.”   “I assure you,my Lord,Dawlish seemed quite certain,” saidYaxley.   
 CHAPTER  1.  THE  DARK  LORD  ASCENDING    “If he has been Confunded, naturally he is certain,” said Snape. “I assure  you,Yaxley,the Auror Office will playno further part in the protection of Harry  Potter. The Order believes that we have infiltrated the Ministry.”   “The Order’s got one thing right, then, eh?” saida squat man sittinga short  distance fromYaxley;hegavea wheezy giggle thatwasechoed hereand there  along the table.   Voldemort did not laugh. His gaze had wandered upward to the body revolving  slowly overhead, and he seemed to be lost in thought.   “My Lord,”Yaxley went on, “Dawlish believes an entire partyof Aurors will  be used to transfer the boy—”   Voldemortheldupalarge whitehand,andYaxleysubsidedat once,watching  resentfully asVoldemort turned backto Snape.   “Where are they going to hide the boy next?”   “At the home of one of the Order,” said Snape. “The place, according to the  source, has been given every protection that the Order and Ministry together  could provide.Ithink that thereis littlechanceof taking him onceheis there,  my Lord, unless, of course, the Ministry has fallen before next Saturday, which  might give us the opportunity to discover and undo enough of the enchantments  to break through the rest.”   “Well,Yaxley?”Voldemort called down the table,the firelight glinting strangely  in his red eyes. “Willthe Ministry have fallen by next Saturday?”   Once again, all heads turned.Yaxley squared his shoulders.   “My Lord,Ihave good news on that score.Ihave—with difficulty, and after  great effort—succeeded in placing an Imperius Curse upon Pius Thicknesse.”  Many of those sitting aroundYaxley looked impressed; his neighbor, Dolohov,  a man with a long, twisted face, clapped him on the back.   “Itisastart,”saidVoldemort.“ButThicknesseisonlyoneman. Scrimgeour  must be surrounded by our people before I act. One failed attempt on the  Minister’s life will set me back a long way.”   “Yes—my Lord, that is true—buy you know, as Head of the Department of  Magical Law Enforcement, Thicknesse has regular contact not only with the   
 Minister himself, but also with the Heads of all the other Ministry departments.  I will,I think,be easy now that wehave such a high-ranking official  under our control, to subjugate the others, and then they can all work together  to bring Scrimgeour down.”   “As long as our friend Thicknesse is not discovered before he has converted  the rest,” saidVoldemort. “At any rate, it remains unlikely that the Ministry  will be mine before next Saturday. if we cannot touchthe boy at his destination,  the it must be done while he travels.”   “We are at an advantage there, my Lord,” said Yaxley, who seemed determined  to receive some portion of approval. “We now have several people  planted within the Department of Magical Transport. IfPotter Apparates or  uses the Floo Network, we shall know immediately.”   “He will not do either,” said Snape. “The order is eschewing any form of  transport that is controlled or regulated by the Ministry; they mistrust everything  to do with the place.”   “All the better,” saidVoldemort. “He will have to move in the open. Easier  to take, by far.”   Again,Voldemort lookedupattheslowly revolvingbodyashewenton,“I  shall attend to the boy in person. There have been too many mistakes where  HarryPotteris concerned. Someof themhave beenmy own. ThatPotter lives  is due more to my errors than to his triumphs.”   The company around the tablewatchedVoldemort apprehensively, eachof  them, bu his or her expression, afraid that they might be blamed for Harry  Potter’s continued existence.Voldemort, however, seemedtobe speaking more  to himself than to any of them, still addressing the unconscious body above  him.   “I have been careless, and so have been thwarted by luckand chance, those  wreckersofall but the best-laid plans. ButI know better now. I understand  thosethingsthatIdidnot understandbefore.ImustbetheonetokillHarry  Potter, andIshallbe.”   At these words, seemingly in response to them, a sudden wail sounded, a   
 CHAPTER  1.  THE  DARK  LORD  ASCENDING    terrible, drawn-out cry of misery and pain. Many of those at the table looked  downward, startled, for the sound had seemed to issue from below their feet.   “Wormtail,” saidVoldemort, with nochangein his quiet, thoughtful tone,  and without removing his eyes from the revolving body above, “haveInot spoken  to you about keeping our prisoner quiet?”   “Yes, m-my Lord,” gasped a small man halfway down the table, who had  been sitting so low in his chair that it had appeared, at first glance, to be unoccupied.  Nowhe scrambled from his seat and scurried fromthe room, leaving  nothing behind him but a curious gleam of silver.   “AsI wassaying,” continuedVoldemort, lookingagainatthe tense facesof  his followers,“I understand better now.Ishall need, for instance,to borrowa  wandfromoneofyou beforeIgotokillPotter.”   The faces around his displayed nothing but shock; he might have announced  that he wanted to borrow one of their arms.   “No volunteers?” saidVoldemort. “Let’s see ... Lucius,I see no reason for  you to have a wand anymore.”   Lucius Malfoy looked up. His skin appeared yellowish and waxy in the  firelight, and his eyes were sunken and shadowed. When he spoke, his voice  was hoarse.   “My Lord?”   “Yourwand, Lucius.Irequire yourwand.”   “I ...”   Malfoy glanced sideways at his wife. She was staring straight ahead, quite  as pale as he was, her long blonde hair hanging down her back, but beneath  the table her slim fingers closed briefly on his wrist. At her touch, Malfoy put  his handintohis robes, withdrew awand,and passedit alongtoVoldemort,  who held it up in from of his red eyes, examining it closely.   “What is it?”   “Elm, my Lord,” whispered Malfoy.   “And the core?”   “Dragon—dragon heartstring.”   
 “Good,” said Voldemort. He drew out his own wand and compared the  lengths. Lucius Malfoy made an involuntary movement; for a fraction of a second, it seemedhe expectedto receiveVoldemort’swantin exchangeforhis own.  The gesturewas not missedbyVoldemort, whose eyes widened maliciously.   “Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?”   Some of the throng sniggered.   “I have given you your liberty, Lucius, is that not enough for you? But I  have noticedthatyouandyourfamily seemlessthanhappyoflate...Whatis  it about my presence in your home that displeases you, Lucius?”   “Nothing—nothing, my Lord!”   “Such lies, Lucius...”   The soft voice seems to hiss on even after the cruel mouth had stopped  moving. One or two of the wizards barely repressed a shudder as the hissing  grew louder; something heavy could be heard sliding across the floor beneath  the table.   Thehuge snake emergedtoclimb slowlyupVoldemort’schair.It rose,seemingly  endlessly, and came to rest across Voldemort’s shoulders; its neck the  thickness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their vertical slits for pupils, unblinking.  Voldemort stroked the creature absently with long thin fingers, still  looking at Lucius Malfoy.   “Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot? Is my return, my rise  to power, not the very thing they professed to desire for so many years?”   “Of course,my Lord,” saidLucius Malfoy. His hand shook as he wiped sweat  from his upper lip. “We did desire it—we do.”   ToMalfoy’sleft, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyesaverted fromVoldemortandthesnake. Tohisright,hisson, Draco,whohadbeengazingupatthe  inertbody overhead, glancedquicklyatVoldemortandawayagain, terrifiedto  make eye contact.   “My Lord,” saida dark woman halfwaydown the table, her voice constricted  with emotion, “it is an honor to have you here, in our family’s house. There can  be no higher pleasure.”   
 CHAPTER  1.  THE  DARK  LORD  ASCENDING    She sat beside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with her dark hair and  heavily lidded eyes, as she was in bearing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat  rigid and impassive, Bellatrix leaned towardVoldemort, for mere words could  not demonstrate her longer for closeness.   “No higher pleasure,” repeatedVoldemort, his head tilteda little to one side  as he considered Bellatrix. “That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you,”   Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears of delight.   “My Lord knowsIspeak nothing but the truth!”   “No higher pleasure ... even compared with the happy event that,I hear,  has taken place in your family this week?”   She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused.   “I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.”   “I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And your, Lucius and Narcissa.  She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin.You mustbe so proud.”   There was an eruption of jeering laughter from around the table. Many  leaned forward to exchange gleeful looks, a few thumped the table with their  fists. The great snake, disliking the disturbance, opened its mouth and hissed  angrily, but the Death Eaters did not hear it, so jubilant where that at Bellatrix  and the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently flushed with  happiness, had turned an ugly, blotchy red.   “She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the outpouring of mirth.  “We—Narcissa and I—have never set eyes on our sister since she married the  Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of us, nor any beast she  marries.”   “What sayyou, Draco?” askedVoldemort, and though his voicewas quiet,  it carried clearly through the catcalls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?”   The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at his father, who was  staring down into his own lap, then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her  head almost imperceptibly, then resumed her own deadpan stare at the opposite  wall.   “Enough,” saidVoldemort, stroking the angry snake. “Enough.”   
 And the laughter died at once.   “Many of our oldest family trees become a little diseased over time,” he said  as Bellatrix gazed at him, breathless and imploring. “You must prune yours,  mustyounot,tokeepithealthy?Cutawaythosepartsthat threatenthehealth  of the rest.”   “Yes, my Lord,” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes swam with tears of gratitude  again. “At the first chance!”   “You shall have it,” said Voldemort. “And in your family, so in the world  ...we shall cutaway the canker that infects us until only thoseof the true  blood remain... ”   Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it directly at the slowly  revolving figure suspended over the table, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure  came to life with a groan and began to struggle against invisible bonds.   “Do you recognize our guest, Severus?” askedVoldemort.   Snape raised his eyes to the upside down face. All of the Death Eaters  were looking up at the captive now, as though they had been given permission  to show curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the woman said in a  cracked and terrified voice. “Severus! Help me!”   “Ah, yes,” said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly awayagain.   “And you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, stroking the snake’s snout with his  wand-free hand. Draco shook his head jerkily. now that the woman had woken,  he seems unable to look at her anymore.   “But you would nothave taken herclasses,” saidVoldemort. “For thoseof  youwhodonotknow,wearejoinedheretonightby Charity Burbage,whountil  recently, taughtatHogwartsSchoolofWitchcraftandWizardry.”   Thereweresmallnoisesof comprehensionaroundthetable.Abroad,hunched  woman with pointed teeth cackled.   “Yes... Professor Burbage taught thechildrenof witches and wizards all  aboutMuggles...howtheyarenotso differentfromus... ”   One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity Burbage revolved to face  Snape again.   
 CHAPTER  1.  THE  DARK  LORD  ASCENDING    “Severus ... please ... please ... ”   “Silence,” saidVoldemort, with another twitchof Malfoy’swand,and Charity  fell silent as if gagged. “Not content with corrupting and polluting the minds  ofWizardingchildren, last week Professor Burbage wrote an impassioned defense  of Mudbloods in the DailyProphet.Wizards, she says, must accept those  thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling of the purebloods is, says  Professor Burbage,a most desirable circumstance ...She wouldhave useall  matewith Muggles...or, no doubt, werewolves ... ”   Nobody laughed this time; There was no mistaking the anger and contempt  in Voldemort’s voice. For the third time, Charity Burbage revolved to face  Snape. Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape looked back  at her, quite impassive, as she turned slowly awayfrom his again.   “Avada Kedavra.”   The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the room. Charity fell,  with a resounding crash, onto the table below, which trembled and creaked.  SeveraloftheDeathEatersleaptbackintheirchairs. Dracofelloutofhisonto  the floor.   “Dinner, Nagini,” said Voldemort softly, and the great snake swayed and  slithered from his shoulders onto the polished wood.   
 Chapter  2    In  Memoriam    H H arrywas bleeding. Clutchinghisrighthandinhisleftand sweating  under his breath, he shouldered open his bedroom door. There  was a crunchof breaking china. He had trodden on a cup of cold  tea that had been sitting on the floor outside his bedroom door.   “What the—?”   He looked around, the landing of number four, Privet Drive, was deserted.  Possibly the cup of tea was Dudley’s idea of a clever booby trap. Keeping his  bleeding hand elevated, Harry scraped the fragments of cup together with the  other hand and threw them into the already crammed bin just visible inside  his bedroom door. Then he tramped across to the bathroom to run his finger  under the tap.   It was stupid, pointless, irritating beyond belief that he still had four days  leftofbeingunabletoperformmagic...buthehadtoadmitto himselfthatthis  jagged cut in his finger would have defeated him. He had never learned how  to repair wounds, and now he came to think of it—particularly in light of his  immediate plans—it seemed a serious flaw in his magical education. Making  a mental note to ask Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad of toilet  paper to mop up as muchof the tea as he could, before returning to his bedroom  and slamming the door behind him.   17   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    Harry had spent the morning completely emptying his school trunk for the  first time since he had packed it six years ago. At the start of the intervening  school years, he had merely skimmed off the topmost three quarters of the  contents and replaced or updated them, leaving a layer of general debris at  the bottom—old quills, desiccated beetle eyes, single socks that no longer fit.  Minutes previously, Harry had plunged his hand into this mulch, experienced  a stabbing pain in the fourth finger of his right hand, and withdrawn it to  see a lot of blood. He now proceeded a little more cautiously. Kneeling down  beside the trunk again, he groped around in the bottom and, after retrieving  an old badge that flickered feebly between SUPPORT CEDRIC DIGGORY and  POTTER STINKS, a cracked and worn-out Sneakoscope, and a gold locket  inside which a note signed R.A.B. had been hidden, he finally discovered the  sharp edge that had done the damage. He recognized it at once. It was a two- inch-long fragment of the enchanted mirror that his dead godfather,Sirius,had  given him. Harry laid it aside and felt cautiously around the trunk for the rest,  but nothing more remained of his godfather’s last gift except powdered glass,  which clung to the deepest layer of debris like glittering grit.   Harry sat up and examined the jagged piece on whichhe had cut himself,  seeing nothing but his own bright green eye reflected back at him. Then he  placed the fragment on top of that morning’s DailyProphet, whichlayunread  on the bed, and attempted to stem the sudden upsurge of bitter memories,  the stabs of regret and of longing the discovery of the broken mirror had occasioned,  by attacking the rest of the rubbish in the trunk.   It took another hour to empty it completely, throw awaythe useless items,  and sort the remainder in piles according to whether or not he would need them  from now on. His school and Quidditchrobes, cauldron, parchment, quills, and  most of his textbooks were piled in a corner, to be left behind. He wondered  what his aunt and uncle would do with them; burn them in the dead of night,  probably, as if they were the evidence of some dreadful crime. His Muggle  clothing, Invisibility Cloak, potion-making kit, certain books, the photograph  album Hagrid had once given him, a stack of letters, and his wand had been   
 repacked into an old rucksack. In a front pocket were the Marauder’s Map  and the locket with the note signed R.A.B. inside it. the locket was accorded  this place on honor not because it was valuable—in all usual senses it was  worthless—but because of what it had cost to attain it.   This left a sizable stackof newspapers sitting on his desk beside his snowy  owl, Hedwig: one for each of the days Harry had spent at Privet Drive this  summer.   He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to his desk. Hedwig  made no movement as he began to flick through the newspapers, throwing  them into the rubbish pile one by one. The owl as asleep, or else faking: she  was angry with Harry about the limited amount of time she was allowed out of  her cage at the moment.   As he neared the bottom of the pile of newspapers, Harry slowed down,  searching for one particular issue that he knew had arrived shortly after he  had returned to Privet Drive for the summer; he remembered that there had  been a small mention on the front about the resignation of Charity Burbage,  the Muggle Studies teacher at Hogwarts. At last he found it. turning to page  ten, he sank into his desk chair and reread the article he had been looking for.   ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE  REMEMBERED    by  Elphias  Doge    I met Albus Dumbledore at the age of eleven, on our first day  at Hogwarts. Our mutual attraction was undoubtedly due to the  fact that we both felt ourselves to be outsiders. I had contracted  dragon pox shortly before arriving at school, and while I was no  longer contagious, my pockmarked visage and greenish hue did not  encourage many to approach me.For his part, Albus had arrived at  Hogwarts under the burden of unwanted notoriety. Scarcely a year  previously,his father,Percival,hadbeen convictedofasavageand  well-publicized attackupon three young Muggles.   Albus never attempted to deny that his father (who was to die in   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    Azkaban) had committed this crime; on the contrary,whenIplucked  up couragetoaskhim,he assuredmethathe knewhis fathertobe  guilty. Beyond that, Dumbledore refused to speak of the sad business,  though many attempted to make him do so. Some, indeed,  were disposed to praise his father’s action and assumed that Albus  too was a Muggle-hater. They could not have been more mistaken.  As anybody who knew Albus would attest, he never revealed the  remotest anti-Muggle tendency. Indeed, his determined support for  Muggle rights gained him many enemies in subsequent years.   In a matter of months, however, Albus’s own fame had begun  to eclipse that of his father. By the end of his first year he would  never again be known as the son of a Muggle-hater, but as nothing  more or less than the most brilliant student ever seen at the school.  Those of us who were privileged to be his friends benefited from his  example,notto mentionhishelpand encouragement,withwhichhe  was always generous. He confessed to me in later life that he knew  even then that his greatest pleasure layin teaching.   He not only won every prize of note that the school offered, he  was soon in regular correspondence with the most notable magical  names of the day, including Nicolas Flamel, the celebrated alchemist;  Bathilda Bagshot, the noted historian; and AdalbertWaffling,  the magical theoretician. Several of his papers found their  wayinto learned publications such as TransfigurationToday, Challenges  in Charming, and The PracticalPotioneer. Dumbledore’s future  career seemed likely to be meteoric, and the only question that  remained was when he would become Minister of Magic. Though it  was often predictedin later years thathewas on the pointof taking  the job, however, he never had Ministerial ambitions.   Three years after we had started at Hogwarts, Albus’s brother,   Aberforth, arrived at school. They were not alike; Aberforth was   never bookish and, unlike Albus, preferred to settle arguments by   
 dueling rather than through reasoned discussion. However, it is  quite wrong to suggest, as some have, that the brothers were not  friends. They rubbed along as comfortably as two such different  boys could do. In fairness to Aberforth, it must be admitted that  living in Albus’sshadow cannot have been an altogether comfortable  experience. Being continually outshone was an occupational hazard  of being his friend and cannot have been any more pleasurable as a  brother.   When Albus andI left Hogwarts we intended to take the then- traditional tour of the world together, visiting and observing foreign  wizards, before pursuing our separate careers. However, tragedy  intervened. On the very eve of our trip, Albus’s mother, Kendra,  died, leaving Albus the head, and sole breadwinner, of the family. I  postponedmy departurelong enoughtopaymy respectsatKendra’s  funeral, then left for what was now to be a solitary journey. With a  younger brother and sister to care for, and little gold left to them,  there could no longer be any question of Albus accompanying me.   That was the period of our lives when we had least contact. I  wrote to Albus, describing, perhaps insensitively, the wonders of my  journey, from narrow escapes from chimaeras in Greece to the experiments  of Egyptian alchemists. His letters told me little of his  day-to-day life, whichI guessedtobe frustratingly dullfor such a  brilliant wizard. Immersed in my own experiences, it was with horrorthatI  heard,towardtheendofmyyear’stravels,thatyetanother  tragedy had struckthe Dumbledores: the death of his sister,  Ariana.   Though Ariana had beenin poor health fora long time, the blow,  coming so soon after the loss of their mother, had a profound effecton  bothofher brothers. All thoseclosestto Albus-andI count  myself one of that lucky number-agree that Ariana’s death, and Albus’s  feeling of personal responsibility for it (though of course, he   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    was guiltless), left their mark upon him forevermore.  I returned home to find a young man who had experienced a  mucholder person’ssuffering. Albuswas more reserved than before,  andmuchless lighthearted.Toaddtohismisery,thelossof Ariana  had led, not to a renewed closeness between Albus and Aberforth,  but to an estrangement. (In time this would lift-in later years they  reestablished, if not a close relationship, then certainly a cordial  one.) However, he rarely spoke of his parents or of Ariana from then  on, and his friends learned not to mention them.  Other quills will describe the triumphs of the following years.  Dumbledore’s innumerable contributions to the state ofWizarding  knowledge, including his discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s  blood, will benefit generations to come, as will the wisdom he displayed  in the many judgments he made while ChiefWarlockof the  Wizengamot. They say, still, that noWizarding duel ever matched  that between Dumbledore and Grindelwald in 1945. Those who wit   nessed it have written of the terror and the awe they felt as they  watched these two extraordinary wizards do battle. Dumbledore’s  triumph, and its consequences for theWizarding world, are consid   ered a turning point in magical history to match the introduction  of the International Statute of Secrecy or the downfall of He-WhoMust– Not-Be-Named.   Albus Dumbledore was never proud or vain; he could find something  to value in anyone,however apparently insignificant or wretched,  andIbelieve that his early losses endowed him with great humanity  and sympathy. I shall miss his friendship more thanIcan say,  but my loss is as nothing compared to theWizarding world’s. That  he was the most inspiring and the best loved of all Hogwarts headmasters  cannot be in question. He died as he lived, working always  for the greater good and, to his last hour, as willing to stretchout a  handtoa smallboywithdragonpoxashewasonthedaythatImet   
 him.   Harry finished reading but continued to gaze at the picture accompanying  the obituary. Dumbledore was wearing his familiar, kindly smile, but as he  peered over the top of his half-moon spectacles, he gave the impression, even  in newsprint, of betraying Harry, whose sadness mingled with a sense of humiliation.    He had thought he knew Dumbledore quite well, but ever since reading  this obituary he had been forced to recognize that he had barely known him  at all. Never one had he imagined Dumbledore’s childhood or youth; it was  as though he had sprung into being as Harry had known him, venerable and  silver-haired and old. The idea of a teenage Dumbledore was simply odd, like  trying to imagine a stupid Hermione or a friendly Blast-Ended Skrewt.   He had never thought to ask Dumbledore about his past. No doubt it would  have felt strange, impertinent even, but after all, it had been common knowledge  that Dumbledore had taken part in that legendary duel with Grindelwald,  and Harry had not thought to ask Dumbledore what that had been like, nor  about any of his other famous achievements. No, they had always discussed  Harry, Harry’s past, Harry’s future, Harry’s plans...andit seemedto Harry  now, despite the fact that his future was so dangerous and so uncertain, that  he had missed irreplaceable opportunities when he had failed to ask Dumbledore  more about himself, even though the only personal question he had ever  asked his headmaster was also the only on he suspected that Dumbledore had  not answered honestly:   “What do you see when you look in the mirror?”  “I?I see myself holdinga pairof thick, woolen socks.”  After several minutes’ thought, Harry tore the obituary out of the Prophet,    folded it carefully, and tucked it inside the first volume of Practical Defensive  Magic and Its Use Against the DarkArts. Then hethrew the rest of the newspaper  into the rubbish pile and turned to face the room. It was much tidier.  The only things left out of place were today’s DailyProphet, still lying on the   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    bed, and on top of it, the piece of broken mirror.  Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror fragment off today’s Daily  Prophet, still lying on the bed, and on top of it, the piece of broken mirror.   Harry moved across the room, slid the mirror fragment off today’s Prophet,  and unfolded the newspaper. He had merely glanced at the headline when he  had taken the rolled-up paper from the delivery owl early that morning and  thrown it aside, after nothing that it said nothing about Voldemort. Harry  was sure that the Ministry was leaning on the Prophet to suppress news about  Voldemort. It was only now, therefore, that he saw what he had missed.   Across the bottom half of the front page a smaller headline was set over a  picture of Dumbledore striding along looking harried:   DUMBLEDORE—THE  TRUTH  AT  LAST?    Coming next week, the shocking story of the flawed genius considered  by many to be the greatest wizard of his generation. Stripping  awaythe popular image of serene, silver-bearded wisdom, Rita  Skeeter reveals the disturbed childhood, the lawless youth, the lifelong  feuds, and the guilty secrets that Dumbledore carried to his  grave. WHY was the man tipped to be Minister of Magic content  to remain a mere headmaster? WHAT was the real purpose of the  secret organization known as the Order of the Phoenix? HOW did  Dumbledore really meet his end?   The answers to these and many more questions are explored in  the explosive new biography, The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore,  by Rita Skeeter, exclusively interviewed by Betty Braithwaite, page  13, inside.   Harry ripped open the paper and found page thirteen. The article was  topped with a picture showing another familiar face: a woman wearing jeweled  glasses with elaborately curled blonde hair, her teeth bared in what was  clearly supposed to be a winning smile, wiggling her fingers up at him. Doing  his best to ignore this nauseating image, Harry read on.   
 In person, Rita Skeeter is much warmer and softer than her famously  ferocious quill-portraits might suggest. Greeting me in the  hallway of her cozy home, she leads me straight into the kitchen  for a cup of tea, a slice of pound cake and, it goes without saying, a  steaming vat of freshest gossip.   “Well,of course,Dumbledoreisabiographer’sdream,”says Skeeter.  “Such a long, full life. I’m sure my book will be the first of very,  very many.” Skeeter was certainly quick off the mark. Her nine- hundred page book was completed a mere four weeks after Dumbledore’s  mysterious deathinJune.Iaskherhowshe managed this  superfast feat.   “Oh, when you’ve been a journalist as long as I have, working  toa deadlineis second nature.Iknew thattheWizarding worldas  clamoringforthefullstoryandI wantedtobethefirstto meetthat  need.”   I mentioned the recent, widely publicized remarks of Elphias  Doge, Special Advisor to theWizengamot and longstanding friend  of Albus Dumbledore’s, that “Skeeter’s book contains less fact than  a Chocolate frog card.”   Skeeter throws backher head and laughs.   “Darling Dodgy! Iremember interviewing him a few years back  about merpeople rights, bless him. Completely gaga, seemed to  think we were sitting at the bottom of Lake windermere,kept telling  me to watchout for trout.”   And yet Elphias Doge’saccusations of inaccuracy have been echoed  in many places. Does Skeeter really feel that four short weeks have  beenenoughtogainafull pictureof Dumbledore’slongand extraordinary  life?   “Oh, my dear,” beams Skeeter, rapping me affectionately across  the knuckles, “you know as well asIdo how muchinformation can  be generated by a fat bag of Galleons, a refusal to hear the word   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    ‘no,’ and a nice sharp Quick-Quotes Quill! People were queuing to  dish the dirt on Dumbledore anyway. Not everyone thought he was  so wonderful, you know—he trod on an awful lot of important toes.  But old Dodgy Doge can get off his high hippogriff, because I’ve had  access to a source most journalists would swap their wands for, one  who has never spoken in public before and who was close to Dumbledore  during the most turbulent and disturbing phase of his youth.”   The advance publicity of Skeeter’s biography has certainly suggested  that there will be shocks in store for those who believe Dumbledoretohaveledablamelesslife.  What werethe biggest surprises  she uncovered,Iask?   “Now,comeoffit,Betty,I’mnotgivingawayallthe highlightsbefore  anybody’s bought the book!” laughs Skeeter. “ButIcan promise  that anybodywho still thinks Dumbledorewas whiteashis beardis  in forarudeawakening! Let’sjust saythat nobody hearing him rage  against you-Know-Who would have dreamed that he dabbled in the  Dark Arts himselfinhis youth! Andforawizardwho spenthis later  years pleading for tolerance,hewasn’t exactlybroad-minded when  he was younger! Yes, Albus Dumbledore had an extremely murky  past, not to mention that very fishy family, whichhe worked so hard  to keep hushed up.”   Iask whether Skeeter is referring to Dumbledore’sbrother,Aber   forth,whose convictionbytheWizengamotformisuseofmagiccaused   a minor scandal fifteen years ago.   “Oh, Aberforth is just the tip of the dung heap.” laughs Skeeter.  “No, no, I’m talking about much worse than a brother with a fondness  for fiddling about with goats, worse even than the Mugglemaiming  father-Dumbledore couldn’t keep either of them quiet anyway,  they were bothchargedby theWizengamot. No, it’s the mother  and the sister that intrigued me, and a little digging uncovered a  positivenestof nastiness—but,asIsay,you’llhavetowaitforchap   
 tersninetotwelveforfull details.AllIcansaynowis,it’snowonder  Dumbledore never talked about how his nose got broken.”   Family skeletons notwithstanding, does Skeeter deny the brilliance  that led to Dumbledore’s many magical discoveries?   “He had brains,” she concedes, “although many now question  whether he could really take full credit for all of his supposed achievements. AsIrevealinchapter sixteen, Ivor Dillonsbyclaimshehad  already discovered eight uses of dragon’s blood when Dumbledore  ‘borrowed’ his papers.”   But the importance of some of Dumbledore’s achievements cannot, Iventure,be denied. Whatofhis famous defeatof Grindelwald?   “Oh, now, I’m glad you mentioned Grindelwald,” says Skeeter  with a tantalizing smile. “I’m afraid those who go dewy eyed over  Dumbledore’sspectacular victory must brace themselves forabombshell—  or perhaps a Dungbomb. very dirty business indeed. All I’ll sayis,  don’tbesosurethattherereallywasthe spectaculardueloflegend.  After they’ve read my book, people may be forced to conclude that  Grindelwald simply conjured a white handkerchief from the end of  his wand and came quietly!”   Skeeter refuses to give any more away on this intriguing subject,  so we turn instead to the relationship that will undoubtedly  fascinate her readers more than any other.   “Oh yes,” says Skeeter, nodding briskly, “I devote an entire chapter  to the whole Potter-Dumbledore relationship. It’s been called  unhealthy, even sinister. Again, your readers will have to buy my  book for the whole story, but there is no question that Dumbledore  tookan unnatural interestinPotterfromthewordgo. Whetherthat  was really in the boy’s best interests—well, we’ll see. It’s certainly  an open secret thatPotter has hada most troubled adolescence.”   Iask whether Skeeter is still in touchwith HarryPotter, whom  she so famously interviewed last year: abreakthrough piece in which   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    Potter spoke exclusively of his conviction thatYou-Know-Who had  returned.   “Oh, yes, we’ve developedaclose bond,” says Skeeter. “PoorPotter  has few real friends, and we met at one of the most testing momentsofhis  life—the TriwizardTournament. Iam probably oneof  the only people alive who can say that they know the real Harry  Potter.”   Whichleads us neatly to the many rumors still circulating about  Dumbledore’s final hours. Does Skeeter believe that Potter was  there when Dumbledore died?   “well,Idon’twantosay toomuch—it’sallinthe book—butthe  eyewitnesses inside Hogwarts castle sawPotter runningawayfrom  the scene moments after Dumbledore fell, jumped, or was pushed.  Potter later gave evidence against Severus Snape, a man against  whom he has a notorious grudge. Is everything as it seems? that is  fortheWizardingcommunityto decide—oncethey’vereadmybook.”   On that intriguing note,Itake my leave. there can be no doubt  that Skeeter has quilled an instant bestseller, Dumbledore’s legions  of admirers, meanwhile, may well be trembling at what is soon to  emerge about their hero.   Harry reached the bottom of the article, but continued to stare blankly at  the page. Revulsion and fury rose in him like vomit; he balled up the newspaper  and threw it, with all his force, at the wall, where it joined the rest of the  rubbish heaped around his overflowing bin.   He began to stride blindly around the room, opening empty drawers and  picking up books only to replace them on the same piles, barely conscious of  what he was doing, as random phrases from Rita’s article echoed in his head:   An entirechaptertothe wholePotter-Dumbledore relationship...It’sbeen called  unhealthy, even sinister ...He dabbled in the Dark Arts himself in his youth  ...I’vehad accesstoa source most journalists wouldswap their wandsfor...   
 “Lies!” Harry bellowed, and though the window he saw the next-door neighbor,  who had paused to restart his lawn mower, look up nervously.   Harry sat down hard on the bed. The broken bit of mirror danced away  from him; he picked it up and turned it over in his fingers, thinking, thinking  of DumbledoreandthelieswithwhichRita Skeeterwas defaminghim....   Aflash of brightest blue. Harry froze, his cut finger slipping on the jagged  edge of the mirror again. He had imagined it, he must have done. He glanced  overhis shoulder,butthewallwasasicklypeachcolorofAuntPetunia’schoosing:  There was nothing blue there for the mirror to reflect. He peered into the  mirror fragment again, and saw nothing but his own bright green eye looking  backat him.   He had imagined it, there was no other explanation; imagined it, because  he had been thinking of his dead headmaster. If anything was certain, it was  that the bright blue eyes of Albus Dumbledore would never pierce him again.   
 CHAPTER  2.  IN  MEMORIAM    
 Chapter  3    The  Dursleys  Departing    T T hesoundofthefrontdoor slammingechoedupthestairandavoice  yelled, “Oi,You!” Sixteen years of being addressed thus left Harry  in no doubt whom his uncle was calling; nevertheless, he did not  immediately respond. He was still gazing at the mirror fragment in which, for  a split second, he had thought he sayDumbledore’s eye. It was not until his  uncle bellowed, “BOY!” that Harry got slowly to his feet and headed for the  bedroom door, pausing to add the piece of broken mirror to the rucksackfilled  with things he would be taking with him.   “You took your time!” roaredVernon Dursley when Harry appeared at the  topofthe stairs. “Getdownhere,I wanta word!”   Harry strolled downstairs, his hands deep in his jeans pockets. When he  reached the living room he found all three Dursleys. They were dressed for  traveling: UncleVernoninafawn zip-upjacket, AuntPetuniainaneat salmon- colored coat, and Dudly, Harry’s large, blond, muscular cousin, in his leather  jacket.   “Yes?” asked Harry.   “Sit down!” said UncleVernon. Harry raised his eyebrows. “Please!” added  UncleVernon, wincing slightly as though the wordwas sharpin his throat.   Harry sat. He though he knew what was coming. His uncle began to pace   31   
 CHAPTER  3.  THE  DURSLEYS  DEPARTING    up and down, AuntPetunia and Dudley following his movements with anxious  expressions. Finally, his large purple face crumpled with concentration, Uncle  Vernon stopped in front of Harry and spoke.   “I’ve changed my mind,,” he said.   “What a surprise,” said Harry.   “Don’t you talk in that tone—” began Aunt Petunia in a shrill voice, but  Vern Dursley waved her down.   “It’sall alotofclaptrap,” saidUncleVernon, glaringatHarrywithpiggy  little eyes. “I’ve decidedI don’t believea wordof it.We’re staying put, we’re  not going anywhere.”   Harry looked up at his uncle and felt a mixture of exasperation and amusement. Vernon Dursley had beenchanging his mind every twenty-four hours for  the past four weeks, packing and unpacking ad repacking the car with every  change of heart. Harry’s favorite moment had been the one when UncleVernon,  unaware that Dudley had added his dumbbells to his case since the last  time it had been unpacked, had attempted to hoist it back into the boot and  collapsed with roars of pain and muchswearing.   “According to you,” Vernon Dursley said now, resuming his pacing up and  down the living room, “we—Petunia, Dudley, and I—are in danger. From—  from—”   “Some of my ’my lot,’ right,” said Harry.   “Well,Idon’t believeit,” repeatedUncleVernon,comingtoahaltinfrontof  Harryagain.“Iwasawakehalfthenight thinkingit’s over,andIbelieveit’sa  plot to get the house.”   “The house?” repeated Harry. “What house?”   “This house!” shrieked UncleVernon, the vein in his forehead starting to  pulse. “Our house! House prices are skyrocketing around here! You want us  out of the wayand then you’re going to do a bit of hocus-pocus and before we  know it the deeds will my in your name and—”   “Are you out of your mind?” demanded Harry. “Aplot to get this house? Are  you actually as stupid as you look?”   
 “Don’t you dare—!” squealed AuntPetunia, but again,Vernonwaved her  down: Slights on his personal appearance were, it seemed, as nothing to the  danger he has spotted.   “Just in case you’ve forgotten,” said Harry, “I’ve already got a house, my  godfatherleftmeone.SowhywouldIwantthisone?Allthehappy memories?”   There was silence. Harry thought he had rather impressed his uncle with  this argument.   “Youclaim,” said UncleVernon, starting to pace yet again, “that this Lord  Thing—”   “—Voldemort,” said Harry impatiently, “and we’ve been through this about  a hundred times already. This isn’t a claim, it’s fact, Dumbledore told you last  year, and Kingsley andMr.Weasley—”   Vernon Dursley hunched his shoulders angrily, and Harry guessed that his  uncle was attempting to ward of recollections of the unannounced visit, a few  days into Harry’s summer holidays, of two fully grown wizards. The arrival on  the doorstepof Kingsley Shackleboltand ArthurWeasleyhad comeasa most  unpleasant shock to the Dursleys. Harry had to admit, however, that as Mr.  Weasley had once demolished half of the living room, his reappearance could  nothavebeen expectedto delightUncleVernon.   “—Kingsley and Mr.Weasley explained it all as well,” Harry pressed on remorselessly.  “Once I’m seventeen, the protectivecharm that keeps me safe will  break, and that exposes you as well as me. The Order is sureVoldemort will  target you, whether to torture you to try and find out whereIam, or because  he thinks by holding you hostage I’d come and try to rescue you.”   UncleVernon’sand Harry’s eyes met. Harrywas sure thatin that instant  they were both wondering the same thing. Then UncleVernonwalked on and  Harry resumed, “You’ve got to go into hiding and the Order wants to help.  You’re being offered serious protection, the best there is.”   Uncle Vernon said nothing, but continued to pace up and down. Outside  the sun hung low over the privet hedges. The next-door neighbor’s lawn mower  stalled again.   
 CHAPTER  3.  THE  DURSLEYS  DEPARTING    “I thought therewasa Ministryof Magic?” askedVernon Dursley abruptly.   “There is,” said Harry, surprised.   “Well, then, why can’t they protect us? It seems to me that, as innocent  victims, guilty of nothing more than harboring a marked man, we ought to  qualify for government protection!”   Harry laughed; he could not stop himself. It was so typical of his uncle to  put his hopes in the establishment, even within this world that he despised  and mistrusted.   “You heardwhatMr.Weasleyand Kingsleysaid,”Harry replied.“We think  the Ministry has been infiltrated.”   UncleVernon stroke to the fireplace and back, breathing so heavily that his  great blackmustache tippled, his face still purple with concentration.   “All right,” he said, stopping in front of Harry yet again. “All right, let’s say,  for the sake of argument, we accept this protection. I still don’t see why we  can’t have that Kingsley bloke.”   Harry managed not to roll his eyes, but with difficulty. This question has  also been addressed half a dozen times.   “As I’ve told you,” he said through gritted teeth. “Kingsley is protecting the  Mug—I mean, your Prime Minister.”   “Exactly—he’s the best!” said Uncle Vernon, pointing at the blank television  screen. The Dursleys had spotted Kingsley on the news, walking along  discreetly behindthe Muggle Prime Ministerashe visitedahospital. This,and  the fact that Kingsley had mastered the knackof dressing like a Muggle, not  to mention a certain reassuring something in his slow, deep voice, had caused  the Dursleystotaketo Kingsleyinawaythattheyhad certainlynotdonewith  any other wizard, although it was true that they had never seen him with his  earring in.   “Well, he’s taken,” said Harry. “But HestiaJones and Dedalus Diggle are  more than up to the job—”   “If we’d even seen CVs ... ” began UncleVernon, but Harry lost patience.  Getting to his feet, he advanced on his uncle, now pointing at the TV set him   
 self.   “These accidents aren’t accidents—the crashes and explosions and derailments  and whatever else has happened since we last watched the new. People  are disappearing and dying and he’s behind it—Voldemort. I’ve told you this  over and over again, he kills Muggles for fun. Even the fogs—they’re caused  by dementors, and if you can’t remember what they are, ask your son!”   Dudley’s hands jerked upward to cover his mouth. With his parents’ and  Harry’s eyes upon him, he slowly lowered them again and asked, “There are  ... moreof them?”   “More?” laughed Harry. “More than the two that attacked us, you mean?  Of course there are, there are hundreds, maybe thousands by this time, seeing  as they feed of fear and despair—”   “All right, all right,” blusteredVernon Dursley. “You’ve made your point—”   “I hope so,” said Harry, “because once I’m seventeen, all of them—Death  Eaters, dementors, maybe even Inferi—which means dead bodies enchanted  byaDarkWizard—willbeabletofindyouandwill certainly attackyou.And  if you remember the last time you tried to outrun wizards,Ithink you’ll agree  you need help.”   There was a brief silence in which the distant echo of Hagrid smashing  something down a wooden front door seemed to reverberate through the intervening  years. Aunt Petunia was looking at Uncle Vernon; Dudley was staring  at Harry. Finally Uncle Vernon blurted out, “But what about my work?  WhataboutDudley’sschool?Idon’t supposethosethings mattertoabunchof  layabout wizards—”   “Don’t you understand?” shouted Harry. “They will torture and kill you like  they did my parents!”   “Dad,” said Dudley in a loud voice, “Dad—I’m going with these Order people.”    “Dudley,” said Harry, “for the first time in your life, you’re talking sense.”   Heknewthatthebattlewaswon.IfDudleywas frightenedenoughtoaccept  the Order’shelp,his parents would accompany him: There could be no question   
 CHAPTER  3.  THE  DURSLEYS  DEPARTING    of being separated from their Duddykins. Harry glanced at the carriage clock  on the mantelpiece.   “They’ll be here in about five minutes,” he said, and when none of the Dursleys  replied, he left the room. The prospect of parting—probably forever—from  his aunt, uncle, and cousin was one that he was able to contemplate quite  cheerfully, but there was nevertheless a certain awkwardness in the air. What  did you sayto one another at the end of sixteen years’ solid dislike?   Backin his bedroom, Harry fiddled aimlessly with his rucksack, then poked  a couple of own nuts through the bars of Hedwig’s cage. They fell with dull  thuds to the bottom, where she ignored them.   “We’re leaving soon, really soon,” Harry told her. “And then you’ll be able to  fly again.”   The doorbell rang. Harry hesitated, then headed back out of his room and  downstairs. It was too much to expect Hestia and Dedalus to cope with the  Dursleys on their own.   “HarryPotter!” squeaked an excited voice, the moment Harry had opened  the door, a small man in a mauve top hat was sweeping him a deep bow. “An  honor, as ever!”   “Thanks, Dedalus,” said Harry, bestowing a small and embarrassed smile  upon the dark-haired Hestia. “It’s really good of youto do this ... They’re  through here,my auntand uncleand cousin... ”   “Good dayto you, HarryPotter’s relatives!” said Dedalus happily, striding  into the living room. The Dursleys did not look at all happy to be addressed  thus; Harry half expected another change of mind. Dudley shrank nearer to  his mother at the sight of the witchand wizard.   “I see you are packed and ready. Excellent! The plan, as Harry has told  you,isasimpleone,”said Dedalus,pullingan immensepocketwatchoutofhis  waistcoat and examining it. “We shall be leaving before Harry does. Due to  the danger of using magic in your house—Harry being still underage, it could  provide the Ministry with an excuse to arrest him—we shall be driving, say,  ten miles or so, before Disapparating to the safe location we have picked out   
 for you.You know how to drive,Itake it?” he asked UncleVernon politely.   “Know how to—? Of course I ruddy well know how to drive!” spluttered  UncleVernon.   “Very clever of you, sir, very clever. Ipersonally would be utterly bamboozled  by all those buttons and knobs,” said Dedalus. He was clearly under the  impressionthathewas flatteringVernon Dursley,whowas visiblylosing confidence  in the plan with every word Dedalus spoke.   “Can’t even drive,” he muttered under his breath, his mustache rippling  indignantly, but fortunately neither Dedalus or Hestia seemed to hear him.   “You, Harry,” Dedalus continued, “will wait here for your guard. There has  been a little change in the arrangements—”   “What d’you mean?” said Harry at once. “I thought Mad-Eye was going to  come and take me by Side-Along-Apparition?”   “Can’t do it,” said Hestia tersely. “Mad-Eye will explain.”   The Dursleys, who had listened to allof this with looks of utter incomprehension  on their faces, jumped as a loud voice screeched, “Hurry up!” Harry  looked all around the room before realizing that the voice had issued from  Dedalus’s pocket watch.   “Quite right, we’re operating to a very tight schedule,” said Dedalus, nodding  at his watchand tucking it backinto his waistcoat. “We are attempting to  time your departure from the house with your family’s Disapparition, Harry:  thus, the charm breaks as the moment you all head for safety.” He turned to  the Dursleys. “Well, are we all packed and ready to go?”   Noneof them answered him. UncleVernonwas still staring, appalled,at  the bulge in Dedalus’s waistcoat pocket.   “Perhaps we should wait outside in the hall, Dedalus,” murmured Hestia.  She clearly felt that it would be tactless for them to remain in the room while  Harry and the Dursleys exchanged loving, possibly tearful farewells.   “There’s no need,” Harry muttered, but Uncle Vernon made any further  explanation unnecessary by saying loudly,   “Well, this is good-bye, then, boy.”   
 CHAPTER  3.  THE  DURSLEYS  DEPARTING    He swung his right arm upward to shake Harry’s hand, but at the last  moment seemed unabletofaceit,andmerelyclosedhisfistandbegan swinging  it backward and forward like a metronome.   “Ready,Diddy?” askedAuntPetunia,fussilycheckingtheclaspofherhandbag  so as to avoid looking at Harry altogether.   Dudley did not answer,but stood there with his mouth slightly ajar,reminding  Harry a little of the giant, Grawp.   “Come along, then,” said UncleVernon.   He had already reached the living room door when Dudley mumbled, “I  don’t understand.”   “What don’t you understand, popkin?” asked AuntPetunia, looking up at  her son.   Dudley raised a large, hamlike hand to point at Harry.   “Why isn’t he coming with us?”   UncleVernon and AuntPetunia froze where they stood, staring at Dudley   as though he had just expressed a desire to become a ballerina.   “What?” said UncleVernon loudly.   “Why isn’t he coming too?” asked Dudley.   “Well,he—he doesn’twantto,”saidUncleVernon,turningtoglareatHarry  and asking, “You don’t want to, do you?”   “Not in the slightest,” said Harry.   “There you are,” UncleVernon told Dudley. “Now come on, we’re off.”   He marched out of the room. They heard the front door open, but Dudley  did not move and aftera few faltering steps AuntPetunia stopped too.   “What now?” barked UncleVernon, reappearingin the doorway.   It seems that Dudley was struggling with concepts too difficult to put into  words. After sever moments of apparently painful internal struggle he said,  “But where’s he going to go?”   Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon looked at each other. It was clear that  Dudleywas frightening them. HestiaJones broke the silence.   
 “But ... surely you know where your nephew is going?” she asked, looking  bewildered.   “Certainly we know,” saidVernon Dursley. “He’s off with some of your lot,  isn’the? Right,Dudley,let’sgetinthecar,youheardtheman,we’reinahurry,”   Again,Vernon Dursley marched as far as the front door, but Dudley did not  follow.   “Off with some of our lot?”   Hestia looked outraged. Harry had met this attitude before. Witches and  wizards seems stunned that his closest living relatives took so little interest in  the famous HarryPotter.   “It’s fine,” Harry assured her. “It doesn’t matter, honestly.”   “Doesn’t matter?” repeated Hestia, her voice rising ominously. “Don’t these  people realize what you’ve been through? What dangers you are in? The unique  position you hold in the hearts of the anti-Voldemort movement?”   “Er—no, they don’t,” said Harry. “They think I’m a wast of space actually,  but I’m used to—”   “I don’t think you’re a wast of space.”   If Harry had not seen Dudley’s lips move, he might not have believed it. As  it was, he stared at Dudley for several seconds before accepting that it must  have been his cousin who had spoken for one thing. Dudley had turned red.  Harry was embarrassed and astonished himself.   “Well...er... thanks, Dudley.”   Again, Dudley appeared to grapple with thoughts too unwieldy for expression  before mumbling, “You saved my life.”   “Not really,” said Harry. “It was your soul the dementor would have taken  ... ”   He looked curiously at his cousin. They had had virtually no contact during  this summer or last, as Harry had come backto Privet Drive so briefly and kept  to his room so much. It now dawned on Harry, however, that the cup of cold  teaonwhichhehad troddenthat morningmightnothavebeenaboobytrapat  all. Although rather touched, he was nevertheless quite relieved that Dudley   
 CHAPTER  3.  THE  DURSLEYS  DEPARTING    appeared to have exhausted his ability to express his feelings. After opening  his mouth once or twice more, Dudley subsided into scarlet-faced silence.   AuntPetuniaburstintotears. HestiaJonesgaveheranapprovinglookthat  changed to outrage as AuntPetunia ran forward and embraced Dudley rather  than Harry.   “S—so sweet, Dudders ... ” she sobbed into his massive chest. “S-such a  lovelyb-boy...s-saying thankyou... ”   “But he hasn’t said thank you at all!” said Hestia indignantly. “He only said  he didn’t think Harry was a waste of space!”   “Yeah, but coming from Dudley that’s like ’I love you,”’ said Harry, torn  between annoyanceanda desiretolaughasAuntPetunia continuedtoclutch  at Dudley as if he had just saved Harry from a burning building.   “Are we going or not?” roared UncleVernon, reappearing yet again at the  living room door. “I though we were on a tight schedule!”   “Yes—yes, we are,” said Dedalus Diggle, who had been watching these exchanges  with an air of bemusement and now seemed to pull himself together.  “We really must be off, Harry—”   He tripped forward and wrung Harry’s hand with both of his own.   “—good luck.Ihope we meet again. The hopes of theWizarding world rest  upon your shoulders.”   “Oh,” said Harry. “right. Thanks.”   “Farewell, Harry,” said Hestia, also clasping his hand. “Our thoughts go  with you.”   “I hope everything’s okay,” said Harry witha glance toward AuntPetunia  and Dudley.   “Oh,I’m sureweshallendupthebestofchums,”saidDigglelightly,waving  his hat as he left the room. Hestia followed him.   Dudley gently released himself from his mother’s clutches and walked toward  Harry, who had to repress an urge to threaten him with magic. Then  Dudley held out his large, pink hand.   “Blimey, Dudley,” said Harry over Aunt Petunia’s renewed sobs. “did the   
 dementors blow a different personality into you?”   “Dunno,” muttered Dudley. “See you, Harry.”   “Yeah...” saidHarry,taking Dudley’shandand shakingit.“Maybe.Take  care, BigD.”   Dudley nearly smiled, then lumbered from the room. Harry heard his heavy  footfalls on the graveled drive, and then a car door slammed.   AuntPetunia,whosefacehadbeenburiedinher handkerchief,lookedaround  at the sound. She did not seem to have expected to find herself alone with  Harry. Hastily stowing her wet handkerchief into her pocket, she said, “Well—  good-bye,” and marched toward the door without looking at him.   “Good-bye,” said Harry.   She stoppedand lookedback.ForamomentHarryhadthe strangest feeling  thatshewantedtosaysomethingtohim.Shegavehimanodd, tremulouslook  and seemed to teeter on the edge of speech, but then, with a little jerk of her  head, she bustled out of the room after her husband and son.   
 CHAPTER  3.  THE  DURSLEYS  DEPARTING    
 Chapter  4    The  Seven  Potters    H H arry ran back upstairs to his bedroom, arriving at the window  just in time to see the Dursleys’ cat swinging out of the drive  and off up the road. Dedalus’s top hat was visible between Aunt  Petunia and Dudley in the backseat. The car turned right at the end of Privet  Drive, its windows burned scarlet for a moment in the now setting sun, and  then it was gone.   Harrypickedup Hedwig’scage,hisFirebolt,andhisrucksack,gavehisunnaturally  tidy bedroom one last sweeping look, and then made his ungainly  waybackdownstairs to the hall, where he deposited cage, broomstick, and bag  near the foot of the stairs. The light was fading rapidly now, the hall full of  shadows in the evening light. It felt most strange to stand here in the silence  and know that he was about to leave the house for the last time. Long ago,  when he had been left alone while the Dursleys went out to enjoy themselves,  the hours of solitude had been a rare treat: Pausing only to sneak something  tasty from the fridge, he had rushed upstairs to play on Dudley’s computer,  or put on the television and flicked through the channels to his heart’s content.  It gave him an odd, empty feeling to remember those times; it was like  remembering a younger brother whom he had lost.   “Don’t you want to take a last look at the place?” he asked Hedwig, who   43   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    was still sulking, with her head under her wing. “We’ll never be here again.  Don’t you want to remember all the good times? Imean, look at this doormat.  What memories...DudleypukedonitafterIsavedhimfromthe dementors....  Turns outhewas grateful after all, can you believe it? ...And last summer,  Dumbledorewalked through that front door.... ”   Harry lost the threadof his thoughts fora moment and Hedwig did nothing  to help him retrieve it, but continued to sit with her head under her wing.  Harry turned his back on the front door.   “And under here, Hedwig”—Harry pulled open a door under the stairs—“is  whereIused to sleep;You never knew me then—Blimey, it’s small, I’dforgotten....  ”   Harry looked around at the stacked shoes and umbrellas,remembering how  he used to wake every morning looking up at the underside of the staircase,  which was more often than not adorned with a spider or two. Those had been  the days before he had known anything about his true identity; before he had  found out how his parents had died or why suchstrange things often happened  around him. but Harry could still remember the dreams that had dogged him,  even in those days: confused dreams involving flashes of green light and once—  UncleVernon had nearly crashed the car when Harry had recounted it—a flying  motorbike ...   Therewasasudden, deafening roar from somewhere nearby. Harry straightened  up with a jerk and smacked the top of his head on the low door frame.  Pausingonlyto employafewofUncleVernon’schoicest swear words,he staggered  backinto the kitchen, clutching his head and staring out of the window  into the backgarden.   The darkness seemed to be rippling, the air itself quivering. Then, one by  one, figures began to pop into sight as their Disillusionment Charms lifted.  Dominating the scene was Hagrid, wearing a helmet and goggles and sitting  astride an enormous motorbike with a blacksidecar attached. All around him  other people were dismounting from brooms and, in two cases, skeletal, black  winged horses.   
 Wrenching open the backdoor, Harry hurtled into their midst. There was a  general cry of greeting as Hermione flung her arms around him, Ron clapped  him on the back, and Hagrid said, ”All righ’, Harry? Ready fer the off?”   “Definitely,” said Harry, beaming aroundat themall. “ButI wasn’t expecting  this many of you!”   “Changeofplan,” growled Mad-Eye,whowas holdingtwo enormous,bulging  sacks,andwhosemagicaleyewasspinningfrom darkeningskytohousetogarden  with dizzying rapidity. “Let’s get undercover before we talk you through  it.”   Harry led them all back into the kitchen where, laughing and chattering,  they settled on chairs, sat themselves upon Aunt Petunia’s gleaming work  surfaces, or leaned up against her spotless appliances: Ron, long and lanky;  Hermione,herbushyhairtiedbackinalongplait;FredandGeorge, grinning  identically; Bill, badly scarred and long-haired; Mr. Weasley, kind-faced, balding,  his spectacles a little awry; Mad-Eye, battle-worn, one-legged, his bright  blue magical eye whizzing in its socket; Tonks, whose short hair was her favorite  shade of bright pink; Lupin, grayer, more lined; Fleur, slender and beautiful,  with her long silvery blonde hair; Kingsley, taller and broad-shouldered;  Hagrid, with his wild hair and beard, standing hunchbacked to avoid hitting  his head on the ceiling; and Mundungus Fletcher, small, dirty, and hangdog,  with his droopy bloodhound’s eyes and matted hair. Harry’s heart seemed  to expand and glow at the sight: He felt incredibly fond of all of them, even  Mundungus, whom he had tried to strangle the last time they had met.   “Kingsley,Ithought you were looking after the Muggle Prime Minister?” he  called across the room.   “He can get along without me for one night,” said Kingsley. “You’re more  important.”   “Harry,guess what?”saidTonksfromherperch ontopofthewashingmachine,  and she wiggled her left hand at him; a ring glittered there.   “You got married?” Harry yelped, looking from her to Lupin.   “I’m sorry you couldn’t be there, Harry, it was very quiet.”   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    “That’s brilliant, congrat—”   “All right, all right, we’ll have time for a cozy catch-up later,” roared Moody  over the hubbub, and silence fell in the kitchen. Moody dropped his sacks at  his feet and turned to Harry, “As Dedalus probably told you, we had to abandon  PlanA.PiusThicknessehasgone over,whichgivesusabig problem.He’smade  it an imprisonable offense to connect this house to the Floo Network, place a  Portkey here, or Apparate in or out. All done int he name of your protection to  preventYou-Know-Who getting in at you. Absolutely pointless, seeing as your  mother’s charm does that already. What he’s really done is to stop you from  getting out of here safely.   “Second problem. You’re underage, which means you’ve still got the Trace  on you.”   “I don’t—”   “The Trace, the Trace!” said Mad-Eye impatiently. “The charm that detects  magical activity around under-seventeens, the waythe Ministry finds out out  about underage magic! If you, or anyone around you, casts a spell to get you  out of here, Thicknesse is going to know about it, and so will the Death Eaters.   “We can’t wait for the Trace to break, because the moment you turn seventeen  you’ll lose all the protection your mother gave you. In short: Pius Thicknesse  thinks he’s got you cornered good and proper.”   Harry could not help but agree with the unknown Thicknesse.   “So what are we going to do?”   “We’re going to use the only means of transport left to us, the only ones the  Trace can’t detect, because we don’t need to cast spells to use them: brooms,  thestrals, and Hagrid’s motorbike.”   Harry could see flaws in this plan; however, he held his tongue to give Mad- Eye the chance to address them.   “Now, your mother’s charm will only break under two conditions: when you  come of age, or”—Moody gestured around the pristine kitchen—“you no longer  call this place home. You and your aunt and uncle are going your separate  ways tonight, in the full understanding that you’re never going to live together   
 again, correct?”   Harry nodded.   “so this time, when you leave, there’ll be no going back, and the charm will  break the moment you get outside its range. We’ve choosing to break ti early,  becausethe alternativeiswaitingforYou-Know-Whoto comeand seizeyouthe  moment you turn seventeen.   “The one thing we’ve got on our side is thatYou-Know-who doesn’t know  we’re moving you tonight. We’ve leaked a fake trail to the Ministry: They  think you’re not leaving until the thirtieth. However, this isYou-Know-Who  we’re dealing with, so we can’t just rely on him getting the date wrong; he’s  bound to have a couple Death Eaters patrolling the skies in this general area,  just in case. So we’ve given a dozen different houses every protection we can  throw at them. They all look like they could be the place we’re going to hide  you, they’ve all got some connection with the Order: my house,Kingsley’splace,  Molly auntie Muriel’s—you get the idea.”   “Yeah,” said Harry, not entirely truthfully, because he could still spot a gaping  hole in the plan.   “You’ll be going toTonks’s parents. Once you’re within the boundaries of  the protective enchantments we’ve put on their house you’ll be able to use a  Portkey to the Burrow. Any questions?”   “Er—yes,” said Harry. “Maybe they won’t know whichof the twelve secure  houses I’m heading for at first, but won’t it be sort of obvious once”—he performedaquickheadcount—“ fourteenofusflyofftowardsTonks’s parents’?”   “Ah,” said Moody. “I forgot to mention the key point. Fourteen of us won’t  be flyingtoTonks’s parents. There willbe seven HarryPottersmoving through  the skies tonight, eachof them with a companion, eachpair heading for a different  safe house.”   FrominsidehiscloakMoodynow withdrewaflaskofwhatlookedlikemud.  There was no need for him to sayanother word; Harry understood the rest of  the plan immediately.   “No!” he said loudly, his voice ringing through the kitchen. “No way!”   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    “I told them you’d take it like this,” said Hermione with a hint of complacency.    “If you think I’m going to let six people risk their lives—!”   “—because it’s the first time for all of us,” said Ron.   “This is different, pretending to be me—”   “Well, none of us really fancy it, Harry,” said Fred earnestly. “Imagine if  something went wrong and we were stuck as specky, sccrawny gits forever.”   Harry did not smile.   “Youcan’tdoitifIdon’t cooperate,youneedmetogiveyousomehair.”   “Well, that’sthat plan scuppered,” said George. “Obviously there’snochance  at all of us getting a bit of your hair unless you cooperate.”   “Yeah, thirteen of us against one bloke who’snot allowed to use magic: we’ve  got nochance,” saidFred.   “Funny,” said Harry, “really amusing.”   “If it has to come to force, then it will,” growled Moody, his magical eye now  quivering a little in its socket as he glared at Harry.   “everyone here’s overage,Potter, and they’re all prepared to take the risk.”   Mundungus shrugged and grimaced; the magical eye swerved sideways to  glare at him out of the side of Moody’s head.   “Let’s have no more arguments. Time’s wearing on. I want a few of your  hairs, boy, now.”   “But this is mad, there’s no need—”   “No need!” snarled Moody, “With You-Know-Who out there and half the  Ministry on his side? Potter, if we’re lucky he’ll have swallowed the fake bait  and he’ll be planning to ambush you on the thirtieth, but he’d be mad not to  have a Death Eater or two keeping an eye out, it’s what I’ddo. They might not  be able to get at you or this house while your mother’s charm holds, but it’s  about to break and they know the rough position of the place. Our only chance  is to use decoys. EvenYou-Know-Who can’t split himself into seven.”   Harry caught Hermione’s eye and looked awayat once.   “so,Potter—someofyour hair,ifyou please.”   
 Harry glanced at Ron, who grimaced at him in a just-do-it sort of way.   “Now!” barked Moody.   With all of their eyes on him, Harry reached up to the top of his head,  grabbed a hank of hair, and pulled.   “good,” said Moody, limping forward as he pulled the stopper out of the flask  of potion. “Straight in here, if you please.”   Harry dropped the hair into the mudlike liquid. The moment it made contact  with its surface, the potion began to froth and smoke, then, all at once, it  turned a clear, bright gold.   “Ooh, you look muchtastier than Crabbe and Goyle, Harry,” said Hermione,  before catching sight of Ron’s raised eyebrows, blushing slightly, and saying,  “Oh, you now whatImean—Goyle’s potion looked like bogies.”   “Right then, fakePotters lineup over here, please.” said Moody.   Ron, Hermione,Fred, George, and Fleur linedupin frontof AuntPetunia’s  gleaming sink.   “We’re one short,” said Lupin.   “Here,” said Hagrid gruffly, and he lifted Mundungus by the scruff of the  neck and dropped him down beside Fleur, who wrinkled her nose pointedly  and moved along to stand betweenFred and George instead.   “I’ve told yer, I’d sooner be a protector,” said Mundungus.   “Shut it,” growled Moody. “As I’ve already told you, you spineless worm,  any Death Eaters we run into will be aiming to capturePotter, not kill him.  DumbledorealwayssaidYou-Know-whowouldwantto finishPotterin person.  It’ll be the protectors who have got the most to worry about, the Death Eaters’ll  want to kill them.”   Mundungus did not look particularly reassured, but Moody was already  pullinghalfadozen eggcup-sizedglassesfrominsidehiscloak,whichhehanded  out, before pouringa littlePolyjuicePotion into each one.   “Altogether, then... ”   Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, Fleur, and Mundungus drank. All of them  gasped and grimaced as the potion hit their throats. At once, their features be   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    gan to bubble and distort like hot wax. Hermione and Mundungus were shooting  upward; Ron,Fred, and George were shrinking; their hairwas darkening,  Hermione’s and Fleur’s appearing to shoot backward into their skulls.   Moody,quite unconcerned,wasnow looseningthetiesofthelargesackshe  had brought with him. When he straightened up again, there were six Harry  Potters gasping and panting in front of him.   Fred and George turned to eachother and said together, “Wow—we’re identical!”    “I dunno, though.Ithink I’m still better looking,” saidFred, examining his  reflection in the kettle.   “Bah,” said Fleur, checking herself in the microwave door, “Bill, don’t look  at me—I’m ’ideous.”   “Those whose clothes are a bit roomy, I’ve got smaller here,” said Moody,  indicating the first sack, ” and vice versa. Don’t forget the glasses, there’s six  pairs in the side pocket. And when you’re dressed, there’s luggage in the other  sack.”   The real Harry thought this might just be the most bizarre thing he had  ever seen, and he had seen some extremely odd things. He watched as his six  doppelgangers rummaged in the sacks, pulling out sets of clothes, putting on  glasses, and stuffing their own things away. He felt like asking them to show a  little more respect for his privacy as they all began stripping off with impunity,  clearly more at ease with displaying his body than they would have with their  own.   “I knew Ginny was lying about that that tattoo,” said Ron, looking down at  his bare chest.   “Harry,your eyesightreallyisawful,”said Hermione, assheputon glasses.   Once dressed, the fake Harrys took rucksacks and owl cages, eachcontaining  a stuffed snowy owl, from the second sack.   “Good,” said Moody, as at last the seven dressed, bespectacled, and luggage- laden Harrys faced him. “The pairs will be as follows: Mundungus will be  traveling with me, by broom—”   
 “Why’mIwith you?” grunted the Harry nearest the backdoor.   “Because you’re the one that needs watching,” growled Moody, and sure  enough,hismagicaleyedidnotwaverfrom Mundungusashe continued. “Arthur  andFred—”   “I’m George,” said the twin at whom Moody was pointing, “Can’t you even  tell us apart when we’re Harry?”   “Sorry, George—”   “I’m only yanking yourwand. I’mFred really—”   “Enough messing around!!” snarled Moody. “The other one—George orFred  or whoever you are—you’re with Remus. Miss Delacour—”   “I’m taking Fleur on a thestral,” said Bill. “She’s not that fond of brooms.”   Fleurwalked over tostand beside him, giving hima soppy,slavish look that  Harry hoped with all his heart would never appear on his face again.   “Miss Granger with Kingsley, again by thestral—”   Hermione looked reassured as she answered Kingsley’s smile; Harry knew  that Hermione too lacked confidence on a broomstick.   “Whichleaves youand me, Ron!” saidTonks brightly, knocking overa mug  tree as she waved at him.   Ron did not look quite as pleased as Hermione.   “An’ you’re with me, Harry. That all right?” said Hagrid, looking a little  anxious. “We’ll be on the bike, brooms an’ thestrals can’t take me weight, see.  Not a lot o’ room on the seat with me on it, though, so you’ll be in the sidecar.”   “That’s great,” said Harry, not altogether truthfully.   “We think the Death Eaters will expect you to be on a broom,” said Moody,  whoseemedtoguesshowHarrywasfeeling. “Snape’shadplentyoftimetotell  them everything about you he’s never mentioned before, so if we do run into  any Death Eaters, we’re betting they’llchoose oneofthePotterswho lookat  home on a broomstick. All right then,” he went on, tying up the sackwith the  fakePotters’clothesinitand leadingthewaybacktothedoor,“Imakeitthree  minutes until we’re supposed to leave. No point locking the backdoor, it won’t  keepthe Death Eatersoutwhenthey come looking. Comeon... ”   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    Harry hurried to gather his rucksack,Firebolt, and Hedwig’s cage and followed  the ground to the dark backgarden.   On every side broomsticks were leaping into hands. Hermione had already  been helped up onto a great blackthestral by Kingsley, Fleur onto the other by  Bill. Hagrid was standing ready beside the motorbike, goggles on.   “Is this it? Is this Sirius’s bike?”   “The very same,” said Hagrid, beaming down at Harry. “An’ the last time  yehwasonit,Harry,Icouldfityehinone hand!”   Harry could not help but feel a little humiliated as he got into the sidecar.  It placed him several feet below everybody else: Ron smirked at the sight of  him sitting there like a child in a bumper car. Harry stuffed his rucksackand  broomstickdown by his feet and rammed Hedwig’s cage between his knees. It  was extremely uncomfortable.   “Arthur’s done a bit o’ tinkerin’,” said Hagrid, quite oblivious to Harry’s  discomfort. He settled himself astride the motorcycle, which creaked slightly  and sank inches into the ground. “It’s got a few tricks up its hindquarters now.  Tha’ one was my idea.”   He pointed a thickfinger at a purple button near the speedometer.   “Please be careful, Hagrid,” said Mr. Weasley, who was standing beside  them, holding his broomstick. “I’m still not sure this was advisable and it’s  certainly only to be used in emergencies.”   “Allrightthen,”saidMoody. “Everyoneready,please.I wantusalltoleave  at exactly the same time or the whole point of the diversion’s lost’.’   Everybody mounted their brooms.   “Hold tight now, Ron,” said Tonks, and Harry saw Ron throw a furtive,  guiltylookatLupinbeforeplacinghishandsoneithersideofherwaist. Hagrid  kicked the motorbike into life. It roared like a dragon, and the sidecar began  to vibrate.   “Good luck, everyone,” shouted Moody, “See you all in about an hour at the  Burrow.Onthe countof three.One...two...THREE.”   There was a great roar from the motorbike, and Harry felt the sidecar give   
 a nasty lurch. Hewas risingthrough the air fast, his eyeswater slightly, hair  whipped back off his face. Around him brooms were soaring upward too, the  long blacktail of a threstral flicked past. His legs, jammed into the sidecar by  Hedwig’s cage and his rucksack, were already sore and starting to go numb. So  greatwashis discomfortthathe almostforgottotakealast glimpseof number  four, Privet Drive, by the time he looked over the edge of the sidecar he could  no longer tell which one it was. Higher and higher they climbed into the sky—   And then, out of nowhere, out of nothing, they were surrounded. At least  thirty hooded figures, suspended in midair, formed a vast circle in the midst of  whichthe Order members had risen, oblivious—   Screams, a blaze of green light on every side: Hagrid gave a yell and the  motorbike rolled over. Harry lost any sense of where they were. Streetlights  above him, yells around him, he was clinging to the sidecar for dear life. Hedwig’s  cage, theFirebolt, and his rucksackslipped from beneath his knees.   “No—HEDWIG!”   The broomstick spun to earth, but he just managed to seize the strap of  his rucksack and the top of the cage as the motorbike swung the right way  up again. A second’s relief, and then another burst of green light. The owl  screeched and fell to the floor of the cage.   “No—NO!”   The motorbike zoomed forward; Harry glimpsed hooded Death Eaters scattering  as Hagrid blasted through their circle.   “Hedwig—Hedwig—”   But the owl laymotionless and pathetic as a toy on the floor of her cage. He  couldnottakeitinin,andhisterrorfortheotherswas paramount.Heglanced  over his shoulder and saw a mass of people moving, flares of green light, two  pairs of people on brooms soaring off into the distance, but he could not tell  who they were—   “Hagrid, we’ve got to go back, we’ve got to go back!” he yelled over the thunderous  roar of the engine, pulling out his wand, ramming Hedwig’s cage into  the floor, refusing to believe that she was dead. “Hagrid, TURN AROUND!”   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    “My job’s ter get you there safe, Harry!” bellowed Hagrid, and he opened  the throttle.   “Stop—STOP!” Harry shouted, but he looked backagain as two jets of green  light flew past his left year:Four Death Eaters had brokenawayfrom the circle  and were pursuing them, aiming for Hagrid’s broad back. Hagrid swerved but  the Death Eaters were keeping up with the bike, more curses shot after them,  and Harry had to sink low into the sidecar to avoid them. Wriggling around he  cried, “Stupefy!” and a red boltof light shot from his own wand, cleaving a gap  between the four pursuing Death Eaters as they scattered to avoid it.   “Hold on, Harry, this’ll doit for ’em!” roared Hagrid, and Harry looked up  just in time to see Hagrid slamming a thickfinger into a green button near the  fuel gauge.   Awall,asolidbrickwall,eruptedoutoftheexhaustpipe. Craninghisneck,  Harry saw it expandinto being in midair. Three of the Death Eaters swerved  and avoided it, but the fourth was not so lucky; He vanished from view and  then dropped like a boulder from behind it, his broomstickbroken into pieces.  One of his fellows slowed up to save him, but they and the airborne wall were  swallowed by darkness as Hagrid leaned low over the handlebars and sped up.   More Killing Curses flew past Harry’s head from the two remaining Death  Eaters’ wands; they were aiming for Hagrid. Harry responded with further  Stunning Spells: Red and green collided in midair in a shower of multicolored  sparks, and Harry thought wildly of fireworks, and the Muggles below who  would have no idea what was happening—   “Here we go again, Harry, hold on!” yelled Hagrid, and he jabbed at a second  button. This time a great net burst from the bike’s exhaust, but the Death  Eaters were ready for it. Not only did they swerve to avoid it, but the companion  who had slowed to save their unconscious friend had caught up. He  bloomed suddenly out of the darkness and now three of them were pursuing  the motorbike, all shooting curses after it.   “This’ll do it, Harry, hold on tight!” yelled Hagrid, and Harry saw him slam  his whole hand onto the purple button beside the speedometer.   
 55   With an unmistakable bellowing roar, dragon fire burst from the exhaust,  white-hot and blue, and the motorbike shot forward like a bullet with a sound  of wrenching metal. Harry saw the Death Eaters swerve out of sight to avoid  the deadly trail of flame, and at the same time felt the sidecar swayominously:  Its metal connections to the bike had splintered with the force of acceleration.   “It’s all righ’, Harry!” bellowed Hagrid, now thrown flat onto his backby the  surge of speed; nobody was steering now, and the sidecar was starting to twist  violently in the bike’s slipstream.   “I’m on it, Harry, don’ worry!” Hagrid yelled, and from inside his jacket  pocket he pulled his flowery pink umbrella. “Hagrid! No! Let me!”   “REPARO!”   There was a deafening bang and the sidecar broke awayfrom the bike completely.  Harry sped forward, propelled by the impetus of the bike’s flight, then  the sidecar began to lose height—   In desperationHarry pointedhiswandatthe sidecarand shouted“Wingardium  Leviosa!”   The sidecar rose like a cork, unsteerable but at least still airborne. He had  but a split second’s relief, however, as more curses streaked past him: The  three Death Eaters were closing in.   “I’m comin’, Harry!” Hagrid yelled from out of the darkness, but Harry  could feel the sidecar beginning to sink again: Crouching as low as he could,  he pointed at the middle of the oncoming figures and yelled, “Impedimenta!”   The jinx hit the middle Death Eater in the chest; For a moment the man  was absurdly spread-eagled in midair as though he had hit an invisible barrier:  One of his fellows almost collided with him—   Then the sidecar began to fall in earnest, and the remaining Death Eater  shot a curse so close to Harry that he had to duck below the rim of the car,  knocking out a tooth on the edge of his seat—   “I’m comin’, Harry, I’m comin’!”   A huge hand seized the back of Harry’s robes and hoisted him out of the  plummeting sidecar; Harry pulled his rucksackwith him as he dragged him   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    self onto the motorbike’s seat and found himself back-to-backwith Hagrid. As  they soared upward, awayfrom the two remaining Death Eaters, Harry spat  blood out of his mouth, pointed his wand at the falling sidecar, and yelled,  “Confringo!”   He knew a dreadful, gut-wrenching pang for Hedwig as it exploded; the  Death Eater nearest it was blasted off his broom and fell from sight; his companion  fell backand vanished.   “Harry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry,” moaned Hagrid, “I shouldn’ta tried ter repair  it myself—yeh’ve got no room—”   “It’s not a problem, just keep flying!” Harry shouted back, as two more  Death Eaters emerged out of the darkness, drawing closer.   As the curses came shooting across the intervening space again, Hagrid  swerved and zigzagged. Harry knew that Hagrid did not dare use the dragon- fire button again, with Harry seated so insecurely. Harry sent Stunning Spell  after Stunning Spell back at their pursuers, barely holding them off. He shot  anotherblockingjinxatthem:TheclosestDeathEater swervedtoavoiditand  hishood slipped,andbytheredlightofhisnext StunningSpell,Harrysawthe  strangely blank face of Stanley Shunpike—Stan—   “Expelliarmus!” Harry yelled.   “That’s him, it’s him, it’s the real one!”   The hooded Death Eater’s shout reached Harry even above the thunder of  the motorbike’s engine. Next moment, both pursuers had fallen backand disappeared  from view.   “Harry, what’s happened?” bellowed Hagrid, “Where’ve they gone?”   “I don’t know!”   But Harry was afraid: The hooded Death Eater had shouted “It’s the real  one!”; how had he known? He gazed around at the apparently empty darkness  and felt its menace. Where were they?   He clamored around on the seat to face forward and seized hold of the back  of Hagrid’s jacket.   “Hagrid, do the dragon-fire thing again, let’s get out of here!”   
 “Hold on tight, then, Harry!”   There was a deafening, screeching roar again and the white-blue fire shot  from the exhaust: Harry felt himself slipping backward off what little of the  seat he had, Hagrid flung backward upon him, barely maintaining his grip on  the handlebars—   “I think we’ve lost ’em Harry,Ithink we’ve done it!!” yelled Hagrid.   ButHarrywasnot convinced;Fearlappedathimashe lookedleftandright  for pursuershewassuewould come....Whyhadtheyfallenback?Oneofthem  had sitll hadawand.... It’shim...it’sthe real one.... They had said it right  after he had tried to Disarm Stan....   “We’re nearly there, Harry, we’ve nearly made it!” shouted Hagrid.   Harry feltthe bike dropa little, though the lights down on the ground still  seemed remote as stars.   Then the scar on his forehead burned like fire: as a Death Eater appeared  on either sideof the bike, two Killing Curses missed Harryby millimeters, cast  from behind—   And then Harry saw him. Voldemort was flying like smoke on the wind,  without broomstick or thestral to hold him, his snake-like face gleaming out of  the blackness, his white fingers raising his wand again—   Hagridletoutabellowoffearand steeredthe motorbikeintoaverticaldive.  Clinging on for dear life, Harry sent Stunning Spells flying at random into the  whirling night. He saw a body fly past him and knew he had hit one of them,  but he heard a bang and saw sparks from the engine; the motorbike spiraled  through the air, completely out of control—   Green jets of light shot past them again. Harry had no idea which way was  up, whichdown: His scar was still burning; he expected to die at any second.  Ahooded figure on a broomstickwas feet from him, he saw it raise its arm—   “NO!”   With a shout of fury Hagrid launched himself off the bike at the Death  Eater; to his horror, Harry saw both Hagrid and the Death Eater falling out of  sight, their combined weight too muchfor the broomstick—   
 CHAPTER  4.  THE  SEVEN  POTTERS    Barely gripping the plummeting bike with his knees, Harry heardVoldemort  scream, “Mine!!”   Itwas over: He could not see or hear whereVoldemort was; he glimpsed  another Death Eater swooping out of the wayand heard, “Avada—”   AsthepainfromHarry’s scar forcedhiseyesshut,hiswandactedofitsown  accord. He felt it drag his hand around like some great magnet, saw a spurt  of golden fire through his half-closed eyelids, heard a crack and a scream of  fury. the remaining Death Eater yelled;Voldemort screamed, “No!”; Somehow,  Harry found his nose an inchfrom the dragon-fire button. He punched it with  hiswand-free hand and the bike shot more flames into the air,hurtling straight  toward the ground.   “Hagrid!” Harry called, holding on to the bike for dearlife. “Hagrid—Accio  Hagrid!”   The motorbike spedup, sucked towards the earth.Face level with the handlebars,  Harry could see nothing but distant lights growing nearer and nearer.  He was going to crash and there was nothing he could do about it. Behind him  came another scream, “Your wand, Selwyn, give me your wand!”   He feltVoldemort before he saw him. Looking sideways, he stared into the  red eyes and was sure they would be the last thing he ever saw: Voldemort  preparing to curse him once more—   And thenVoldemort vanished. Harry looked down and saw Hagrid spreadeagled  on the ground below him. He pulled hard at the handlebars to avoid  hitting him, groped for the brake, but with an earsplitting, ground trembling  crash, he smashed into a muddy pond.   
 Chapter  5    Fallen  Warrior    H H agrid?”   Harry struggled to raise himself out of the debris of metal and   leather that surrounded him: his hands sank into inches of muddy  waterashe triedto stand.He couldnot understand whereVoldemorthadgone  and expected him to swoop out of the darkness at any moment. Something hot  and wet was trickling down his chin and from his forehead. He crawled out  of the pond and stumbled toward the great dark mass on the ground that was  Hagrid.   “Hagrid? Hagrid. talk to me—”   But the dark mass did not stir.   “Who’s there? Is itPotter? Are you HarryPotter?”   Harry did not recognize the man’s voice. Then a woman shouted, “They’ve   crashed,Ted! Crashedin the garden!”   Harry’s head was swimming.   “Hagrid.” he repeated stupidly, and his knees buckled.   Thenextthingheknew,hewaslyingonhisbackonwhatfeltlike cushions,  withaburning sensationinhisribsandrightarm.Hismissingtoothhadbeen  regrown. The scar on his forehead was still throbbing.   “Hagrid?”   59   
 60 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    He opened his eyes and saw that he was lying on a sofa in an unfamiliar,  lamplit sitting room. His rucksacklay on the floor a short distance away, wed  and muddy.Afair-haired, big-bellied manwaswatching Harry anxiously.   “Hagrid’s fine, son,” said the man, “the wife’s seeing to him now. How are  you feeling? Anything else broken? I’ve fixed your ribs, your tooth, and your  arm. I’mTed,by theway,TedTonks—Dora’s father.”   Harry sat up too quickly: Lights popped in front of his eyes and he felt sick  and giddy.   “Voldemort—”   “Easy, now,” saidTedTonks, placinga hand on Harry’s shoulder and pushing  him backagainst the cushions. “Thatwasa nasty crash you just had. What  happened, anyway? Somethinggo wrong with the bike? ArthurWeasley overstretchhimself  again, him and his Muggle contraptions?”   “No,” said Harry, as his scar pulsed like an open wound. “Death Eaters,  loads of them—we were chased—”   “Death eaters?” said Ted sharply. “What d’you mean, Death Eaters? I  thought they didn’t know you were being moved tonight,Ithought—”   “They knew,” said Harry.   TedTonks looked up at the ceiling as though he could see through to the  sky above.   Well, we know our protective charms hold, then, don’t we? They shouldn’t  be able to get within a hundred yards of the place in any direction.”   Now Harry understood why Voldemort had vanished: it had been at the  point when the motorbike crossed the barrier of the Order’s charms. He only  hopedthey would continueto work:He imaginedVoldemort,a hundredyards  abovethemastheyspoke,lookingforawayto penetratewhatHarry visualized  as a great transparent bubble.   He swung his legs off the sofa; he needed to see Hagrid with his own eyes  before he would believe that he was alive. He had barely stood up, however,  when a door opened and Hagrid squeezed through it, his face covered in mud  and blood, limping a little but miraculously alive.   
 “Harry!” Knocking over two delicate tables and an aspidistra, he covered  the floor between them in two strides and pulled Harry into a hug that nearly  cracked his newly repaired ribs. “Blimey, Harry, how did yeh get out o’ that? I  thought we were both goners.”   “Yeah, me too.Ican’t believe—”   Harry broke off. He had just noticed the woman who had entered the room  behind Hagrid.   “You!” he shouted, and he thrust his hand into his pocket, but it was empty.   “Yourwand’s here, son,” saidTed, tappingit on Harry’s arm. “It fell tight  beside you,Ipickeditup. And that’smy wife you’re shouting at.”   “Oh, I’m—I’m sorry.”   As shed moved forward into the room, Mrs. Tonks’s resemblance to her  sister Bellatrix became muchless pronounced. Her hairwasa light, soft brown  and her eyes were wider and kinder. Nevertheless, she looked a little haughty  after Harry’s exclamation.   “What happened to our daughter?” she asked. “Hagrid said you were ambushed;  where is Nymphadora?”   “I don’t know,” said Harry. “We don’t know what happened to anyone else.”   SheandTedexchanged looks.A mixtureoffearandguilt grippedHarryat  the sight of their expressions; if any of the other had died, it was his fault, all  his fault. He had consented to the plan, given them his hair....   “ThePortkey,”he said, rememberingallofa sudden.“We’vegottogetback  tothe Burrowandfind out—thenwe’llbeabletosendword,or—orTonkswill,  once she’s—”   “Dora’ll be okay,’Dromeda,” said Ted. “She knows her stuff, she’s been in  plentyoftightspotswiththe Aurors.ThePortkey’sthroughhere,”headdedto  Harry. “It’s supposed to leave in three minutes, if you want to take it.”   “Yeah, we do,” said Harry. He seized his rucksack, swung it onto his shoulders.  “I—”   He lookedatMrs.Tonks, wantingto apologizeforthe stateoffearinwhich  he left her and for whicheh felt so terribly responsible, but no words occurred   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    to him that did not seem hollow and insincere.   “I’ll tellTonks—Dora—to send word, when she ... Thanks for patching us  up, thanks for everything. I—”   Hewasgladtoleavethe roomand followTedTonks alonga short hallway  and into a bedroom. Hagrid came after them, bending low to avoid hitting his  head on the door lintel.   “There yougo, son. That’s thePortkey.”   Mr. Tonks was pointing to a small, silver-backed hairbrush lying on the  dressing table.   “Thanks,” said Harry, reaching out to place a finger on it, ready to leave.   “Wait a moment,” said Hagrid, looking around. “Harry, where’s Hedwig?”   “She...shegothit,” said Harry.   The realization crashed over him: He felt ashamed of himself as the tears  stung his eyes. The owl had bee his companion, his one great link with the  magical world whenever he had been forced to return to the Dursleys.   Hagrid reached out a great hand and patted him painfully on the shoulder.   “Never mind,” he said gruffly. “Never mind. she had a great old life—”   “Hagrid!” saidTedTonkswarningly, as the hairbrush glowed bright blue,  and Hagrid only just got his forefinger to it in time.   With a jerk behind the navel as though an invisible hook and line had  dragged him forward, Harry was pulled into nothingness, spinning uncontrollably, hisfingergluedtothePortkeyasheandHagrid hurtledawayfromMr.  Tonks. Seconds later Harry’s feet slammed into hard ground and he fell onto  his hands and knees in the yard of the Burrow. He heard screams. Throwing  aside the no longer glowing hairbrush, Harry stood up, swaying slightly,  and saw Mrs. Weasley and Ginny running down the steps by the backdoor as  Hagrid, who had also collapsed on landing, clambered laboriously to his feet.   “Harry? You are the real Harry? What happened? Where are the others?”  cried Mrs.Weasley.   “What d’you mean? Isn’t anyone else back?” Harry panted.   The answerwasclearly etchedin Mrs.Weasley’s pale face.   
 “The Death Eaters were waiting for us,” Harry told her. “We were surroundedthe  momentwetookoff—theyknewitwas tonight—Idon’tknowwhat  happened to anyone else, four of them chased us, it was all we could do to get  away, and thenVoldemort caughtup with us—”   He could hear the self-justifying note in his voice, the pleas for her to understand  why he did not know what had happened to her sons, but—   “Thank goodness you’re all right,” she said, pulling him into a hug he did  not feel he deserved.   “Haven’t go’ any brandy, have yeh, Molly?” asked Hagrid a little shakily.  “Fer medicinal purposes?”   She could have summoned it by magic, but as she hurried backtowards the  crooked house, Harry knew that she wanted to hide her face. He turned to  Ginny and she answered his unspoken plea for information at once.   “Ron andTonks shouldhave been backfirst, but they missed theirPortkey,  it came backwithout them.” she said, pointing at a rusty oil can lying on the  ground nearby. “And that one,” she pointed at an ancient sneaker, “should have  beenDadandFred’s,they were supposedtobe second. Youand Hagrid were  third and,“ she checked her watch, “if they made it, George and Lupin ought to  be backin about a minute.”   Mrs. Weasley reappeared carrying a bottle of brandy, whichshe handed to  Hagrid. He uncorked it and drank it straight down in one.   “Mum!” shouted Ginny, pointing to a spot several feet away.   Ablue light had appeared in the darkness; It grew larger and brighter, and  Lupin and George appeared, spinning and then falling. Harry knew immediately  that therewas something wrong: Lupinwas supporting George, whowas  unconscious and whose face was covered in blood.   HarryranforwardandseizedGeorge’slegs.Together,heandLupin carried  George into the house and through the kitchen to the sitting room, where they  laid him on the sofa. As the lamplight fell across George’s head, Ginny gasped  and Harry’s stomach lurched; One of George’s ears was missing. The side of  his head and neck was drenched in wet, shockingly scarlet blood.   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    No sooner had Mrs. Weasley bent over her son than Lupin grabbed Harry  by the upper arm and dragged him, none too gently, back into the kitchen,  where Hagrid was still attempting to ease his bulk through the backdoor.   “Oi!” said Hagrid indignantly. “Le’ go of him! Le’ go of Harry!”   Lupin ignored him.   “What creature satin the corner the first time that HarryPotter visitedmy  office at Hogwarts?” he said, giving Harry a small shake. “Answer me!”   “A—a grindylow in a tank, wasn’t it?”   Lupin released Harry and fell backagainst a kitchen cupboard.   “Wha’ was that’ about?” roared Hagrid.   “I’m sorry Harry, butI had tocheck” said Lupin tersely. “We’ve been betrayed.  Voldemort knew that you were being moved tonight and the only people  who couldhave told him were directly involvedin the plan.You mighthave  been an impostor.”   “So why aren’ you checkin’ me?” panted Hagrid, still struggling with the  door.   “You’re half—giant,” said Lupin, lookingupat Hagrid. “ThePolyjuicePotion  is designed for human use only.”   “None of the Order would have told Voldemort we were moving tonight,”  said Harry. The idea was dreadful to him, he could not believe it of any of  them. “Voldemort only caught up with me toward the end, he didn’t know  which oneI wasinthe beginning.Ifhe’dbeeninontheplanhe’dhave known  from the startI was the one with Hagrid.”   “Voldemort caught up with you?” said Lupin sharply. “What happened?  How did you escape?”   Harry explained briefly how the Death Eaters pursuing them had seemed  to recognize him as the true Harry, how they had abandoned the chase, how  they must have summonedVoldemort, who had appeared just before he and  Hagrid had reached the sanctuary ofTonks’s parents.   “They recognized you? But how? What had you done?”   “I...” Harry triedto remember; the whole journey seemed likea blurof   
 panic and confusion. “I saw Stan Shunpike....You know, the bloke whowas  the conductor on the Knight Bus? AndItried to Disarm him instead of—well,  he doesn’t know what he’s doing, does he? He must be Imperiused!”   Lupin looked aghast.   “Harry, the time for Disarming is past! These people are trying to capture  and kill you! At least Stun if you aren’t prepared to kill!”   “We were hundreds of feet up! Stan’s not himself and ifIstunned him and  he’dfallen, he’dhave died the same as if I’dusedAvadaKedavra!! Expelliarmus  saved me fromVoldemort two years ago,” Harry added defiantly. Lupin  was clutching a bent coat hanger. Hermione flung herself into Harry’s arms,  but Kingsley showed no pleasure at the sight of any of them. Over Hermione’s  shoulder Ha reminding him of the sneering Hufflepuff Zacharias Smith, who  had jeered at Harry for wanting to teachDumbledore’s Army how to Disarm.   “Yes, Harry,” said Lupin with painful restraint, “and a great number of  Death Eaters witnessed that happening! Forgive me, but it was a very unusual  move then, under imminent threat of death. Repeating it tonight in  front of Death Eaters who either witnessed or heard about the first occasion  was close to suicidal!”   “So you thinkIshouldhave killed Stan Shunpike?” said Harry angrily.   “Of course not,” said Lupin, “but the Death Eaters—frankly, most people!—  would have expected you to attackback! Expelliarmus is a useful spell, Harry,  but theDeath Eaters seem to think it is your signature move, andIurge you  not to let it become so!”   Lupin was making Harry feel idiotic, and yet there was still a grain of defiance  inside him.   “I won’t blast people out of my wayjust because they’re there.” said Harry.  “That’sVoldemort’s job.”   Lupin’s retort was last; Finally succeeding in squeezing through the door,  Hagrid staggered to a chair and sat down: it collapsed beneath him. Ignoring  his mingled oaths and apologies, Harry addressed Lupin again.   “Will George be okay?”   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    All Lupin’s frustration with Harry seemed to drain awayat the question.   “I think so, although there’s no chance of replacing his ear, not when it’s  been cursed off—   There was a scuffling from outside. Lupin dived for the back door; Harry  leapt over Hagrid’s legs and sprinted into the yard.   Two figures had appeared in the yard, and as Harry ran toward them  he realized they were Hermione, now returning to her normal appearance,  and Kingsley, both clutching a bent coat hanger. Hermione flung herself into  Harry’s arms, but Kingsley showed no pleasure at the sight of any of them.  Over Hermione’sshoulderHarrysawhimraisehiswandandpointitatLupin’s  chest.   “The last words Albus Dumbledore spoke to the pair of us!”   “Harry is the best hope we have. Trust him,” said Lupin calmly.   Kingsley turnedhiswandonHarry,butLupinsaid,“It’shim,I’vechecked!”   “All right, all right!” said Kingsley,stowing hiswand backbeneath hiscloak.  “But somebody betrayed us! They knew, they knew it was tonight!”   “So it seems,” replied Lupin, “but apparently they did not realize that there  would be seven Harrys.”   “Small comfort!” snarled Kingsley. “Who else is back?”   “Only Harry, Hagrid, George, and me.”   Hermione stifled a little moan behind her hand.   “What happened to you?” Lupin asked Kingsley.   “Followedby five,injured two,might’ve killed one,” Kingsley reeled off,“and  wesawYou-Know-Whoas well,he joinedthechase halfwaythroughbut vanished  pretty quickly. Remus, he can—”   “Fly,” supplied Harry. “I saw him too, he came after Hagrid and me.”   “So that’s why he left, to follow you!” said Kingsley. “I couldn’t understand  why he’dvanished. But what made him change targets?”   “Harry behaved a little too kindly to Stan Shunpike,” said Lupin.   “Stan?” repeated Hermione. “ButIthoughthewasin Azkaban?”   Kingsley let out a mirthless laugh.   
 “Hermione, there’s obviously been a mass breakout whichthe Ministry has  hushedup.Traver’shoodfelloffwhenIcursedhim,he’s supposedtobe inside  too. But what happened to you, Remus? Where’s George?”   “He lost an ear,” said Lupin.   “Lost an—?” repeated Hermione in a high voice.   “Snape’s work,” said Lupin.   “Snape?” shouted Harry, “You didn’t say—”   “He lost his hood during the chase. Sectumsempra was always a speciality  ofSnape’s.IwishIcouldsayI’dpaidhimbackinkind,butitwasallIcould  do to keep George on the broom after he was injured, he was loosing so much  blood.”   Silence fell between the four of them as they looked up at the sky. There  was no sign of movement; the stars stared back, unblinking, indifferent, unobscuredby  flying friends. Wherewas Ron? Where wereFredandMr.Weasley?  Where were Bill, Fleur,Tonks, Mad-Eye, and Mundungus?   “Harry, give us a hand!” called Hagrid hoarsely from the door, in which  he was stuck again. Glad of something to do, Harry pulled him free, then  headed through the empty kitchen and backinto the sitting room, where Mrs.  Weasley had staunched his bleeding now, and by the lamplight Harry saw a  clean, gaping hole where George’s ear had been.   “How is he?”   Mrs.Weasley looked around and said,“I can’t makeit grow back, not when  it’sbeen removedbyDarkMagic.Butitcouldhavebeensomuchworse...He’s  alive.”   “Yeah,” said Harry. “Thank God.”   “DidIhear someone elsein the yard?” Ginny asked.   “Hermione and Kingsley,” said Harry.   “Thank goodness,” Ginny whispered. They looked at each other. Harry  wantedtohugher,holdontoher;hedidnot even caremuchthatMrs.Weasley  was there, but before he could act on the impulse there was a great crash from  the kitchen.   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    “I’ll prove whoI am, Kingsley, after I’ve seen my son, now back off if you  know what’s good for you!”   Harry had never heard Mr. Weasley shout like that before. He burst into  the living room, his bald patchgleaming with sweat, his spectacles askew,Fred  right behind him, both pale but uninjured.   “Arthur!” sobbed Mrs.Weasley. “Oh thank goodness!”   “How is?”   Mr. Weasley dropped to his knees beside George. For the first time since  Harry had known him, Fred seemed to be lost for words. He gaped over the  back of the sofa at his twin’s wound as if he could not believe what he was  seeing.   Perhaps roused by the sound of Fred and their father’s arrival, George  stirred.   “Howdo you feel, Georgie?” whispered Mrs.Weasley.   George’s fingers groped at the side of his head.   “Saintlike” he murmured.   “What’s wrong with him?” croaked Fred, looking terrified: “Is his mind  affected?”   “Saintlike,” repeated George,opening his eyes and looking up at his brother.  “You see...I’mholy. Holey. Fred: geddit?”   Mrs.Weasley sobbed harder than ever. Color floodedFred’s pale face.   “Pathetic,” he told George. “Pathetic! With the whole wide world of ear- related humor before you, you go for holey?”   “Ah well,” said George, grinning at his tear-soaked mother. “You’ll be able  to tell us apart now, anyway, Mum.”   He looked around.   “Hi, Harry—you are Harry, right?”   “Yeah,Iam,”saidHarry,movingclosertothe sofa.   “Well, at least we got you backokay,” said George, “Why aren’t Ron and Bill  huddled round my sickbed?”   “They’re not back yet, George,” said Mrs. Weasley. George’s grin faded.   
 Harry glanced at Ginny and motioned her to accompany him backoutside. As  they walked through the kitchen she said in a low voice,   “Ron andTonks shouldbe backby now. They didn’thavea long journey;  Auntie Muriel’s not that far from here.”   Harry said nothing. He had been trying to keep fear at bayever since reaching  the Burrow, but now it enveloped him, seeming to crawl over his skin,  throbbing in his chest, clogging his throat. As they walked down the back  steps into the dark yard, Ginny took his hand.   Kingsley was striding backward and forward, glancing up at the sky every  timehe turned. Harrywas remindedof UncleVernon pacing the living room  a million years ago. Hagrid, Hermione, and Lupin stood shoulder to shoulder,  gazing upward in silence. None of them looked around when Harry and Ginny  joined their silent vigil.   The minutes stretched into what might as well have been years. The slightest  breath of wind made them all jump and turn toward the whispering bush or  tree in the hope that one of the missing Order members might leap unscathed  from its leaves—   And then a broom materialized directly above them and streaked toward  the ground—   “It’s them!” screamed Hermione.   Tonks landed in a long skid that sent earth and pebbles everywhere.   “Remus!” Tonks cried as she staggered off the broom into Lupin’s arms.  His face was set and white: He seemed unable to speak. Ron tripped dazedly  toward Harry and Hermione.   “You’re okay,” he mumbled, before Hermione flew at him and hugged him  tightly.   “I thought—I thought—”   “’M all right,” said Ron, patting her on the back. “’M fine.”   “Ronwas great,” saidTonkswarmly,relinquishing her hold on Lupin. “Wonderful.  Stunned one of the Death Eaters, straight to the head, and when you’re  aiming at a moving target from a flying broom—”   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    “You did?” said Hermione, gazing up at Ron with her arms still around his  neck.   “Always the tone of surprise,” he said a little grumpily, breaking free. “Are  we the last back?”   “No,” said Ginny, “we’re still waiting for Bill and Fleur and Mad-Eye and  Mundungus. I’m going to tell Mum and Dad you’re okay, Ron—”   She ran backinside.   “So what kept you? What happened?” Lupin sounded almost angry at  Tonks.   “Bellatrix,” saidTonks. “Shewants me quite as much as shewants Harry,  Reuse,shetriedveryhardtokillme. IjustwishI’dgother,I owe Bellatrix.  But we definitely injured Rodolphus.... Then we got to Ron’s Auntie Muriel’s  and we’dmissed ourPortkey and shewas fussing over us—”   Amusclewas jumpinginLupin’sjaw.He nodded,but seemed unabletosay  anything else.   “So what happened to you lot?” Tonks asked, turning to Harry, Hermione,  and Kingsley.   They recounted the stories of their own journeys,but all the time the continued  absence of Bill, Fleur, Mad-eye, and Mundungus seemed to lie upon them  like a frost, its icy bite harder and harder to ignore.   “I’m going to have to get backto Downing Street,Ishould have been there  an hour ago,” said Kingsley finally, after a last sweeping gaze at the sky. “Let  me know when they’re back.”   Lupin nodded. With a wave to the others, Kingsley walked away into the  darkness toward the gate. Harry thought he heard the faintest pop as Kingsley  Disapparated just beyond the Burrow’s boundaries.   Mr. and Mrs. Weasley came racing down the back steps, Ginny behind  them. Both parents hugged Ron before turning to Lupin andTonks.   “Thank you,” said Mrs.Weasley, “for our sons.”   “Don’tbe silly, Molly,” saidTonksat once.   “How’s George?” asked Lupin.   
 “What’s wrong with him?” piped up Ron.   “He’s lost—”   But the endof Mrs.Weasley’s sentencewas drownedina general outcry:A  thestral had just soaredinto sight and landeda few feet from them. Billand  Fleur slid from its back, windswept but unhurt.   “Bill! Thank God, thank God—”   Mrs.Weasleyranforward,butthehugBill bestoweduponherwas perfunctory.  Looking directly at his father, he said, “Mad-Eye’s dead.”   Nobody spoke, nobody moved. Harry felt as though something inside him  was falling, falling through the earth, leaving him forever.   “We saw it,” said Bill; Fleur nodded, tear tracks glittering on her cheeks  in the light from the kitchen window. “It happened just after we broke out of  the circle: Mad-Eye and Dung were close by use, they were heading north too,  Voldemort—he can fly—went straight for them. Dung panicked,Iheard him  cry out, Mad-Eye tried to stop him, but he Disapparated. Voldemort’s curse  hit Mad-Eye full in the face, he fell backward off his broom and—there was  nothing we could do, nothing, we had half a dozen of them on our own tail—”   Bill’s voice broke.   “Of course you couldn’t have done anything,” said Lupin.   They all stood looking at eachother. Harry could not quite comprehend it.  Mad-Eye’s dead; it could not be ... Mad-Eye, so tough, so brave, the consummate  survivor ...   At last it seemed to dawn on everyone, though nobody said it, that there  wasnopointwaitingintheyard anymore,andin silencethey followedMr.and  Mrs.Weasley backinto the Burrow, and into the living room, whereFred and  George were laughing together.   “What’s wrong?” said Fred, scanning their faced as they entered. “What  happened? Who’s—?”   “Mad-Eye,” saidMr.Weasley. “Dead.”   The twins’ grins turned to grimaces of shock. Nobody seemed to know what  to do. Tonks was crying silently into a handkerchief; She had been close to   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    Mad-Eye, Harry knew, his favorite and his prot ´e at the Ministry of Magic.   eg´ Hagrid, who had sat down on the floorin the corner where he had most space,  was dabbing at his eyes with his tablecloth-sized handkerchief.   Bill walked over to the sideboard and pulled out a bottle of firewhisky and  some glasses.   “Here,” he said, and with a wave of his want he sent twelve full classes  soaring through the room to eachof them, holding the thirteenth aloft. “Mad- Eye,”   “Mad-Eye,” they all said, and drank.   “Mad-Eye,” echoed Hagrid, a little late, with a hiccup.   The firewhisky seared Harry’s throat. It seemed to burn feeling backinto  him, dispelling the numbness and sense of unreality, filling him with something  that was like courage.   “So Mundungus disappeared?” said Lupin, who had drained his own glass  in one.   The atmosphere changed at once. Everybody looked tense, watching Lupin,  both wanting him to go on, it seemed to Harry, and slightly afraid of what they  might hear.   “I know what you’re thinking,” said Bill. “and I wondered that too, one  the wayback here, because they seemed to be expecting us, didn’t they? But  Mundungus can’t have betrayed us. They didn’t know there would be seven  Harrys, that confused them the moment we appeared, and in case you’ve forgotten,  it was Mundungus who suggested that little bit of skullduggery. Why  wouldn’t he have told them the essential point? Ithink Dung panicked, it’s as  simple as that. He didn’t want to come in the first place, but Mad-Eye made  him,andYou-Know-Who went straightfor them.Itwas enoughto make anyone  panic.”   “You-Know-Who acted exactly as Mad-Eye expected him to,” sniffedTonks,  “Mad-Eye said he’s expect the real Harry to be with the toughest, most skilled  Aurors. He chased Mad-Eye first, and when Mundungus gave them awayhe  switched to Kingsley.... ”   
 “Yes,and zat eez all very good,” snapped Fleur,“but still eet does not explain  ’ow zey knew we were moving ’Arrytonight, does it? Somebody must ’ave been  careless. Somebody let slip ze date to an outsider. It is ze only explanation for  zeim knowing ze date but not ze ’ole plan.”   She glared around at them all, tear tracks still etched on her beautiful face,  silently daring any of them to contradict her. Nobody did. the only sound to  break the silence was that of Hagrid hiccuping from behind his handkerchief.  Harry glanced at Hagrid, who had just risked his own life to save Harry’s—  Hagrid, whom he loved, whom he trusted, who had once been tricked into givingVoldemort  crucial informationin exchange fora dragon’s egg....   “No,” Harry said out loud, and they all looked at him, surprised. The  firewhisky seemed to have amplified his voice. “I mean ...if somebody made  a mistake,” Harry went on, “and let something slip,I know they didn’t mean  to do it. It’s not their fault, ” he repeated, again a little louder than he would  usuallyhave spoken.“We’vegotto trusteachother.I trustallofyou,Idon’t  think anyone in this room would ever sell me toVoldemort.”   More silence followed his words. They were all looking at him; Harry felt  a little hot again and drank some more firewhisky for something to do. As  he drank, he thought of Mad-eye. Mad-Eye had always been scathing about  Dumbledore’s willingness to trust people.   “Well said, Harry,” saidFred unexpectedly.   “Yeah,’ear,’ear,”saidGeorge,withhalfaglanceatFred,the cornerofwhose  mouth twitched.   Lupinwas wearinganodd expressionashelookedatHarry.Itwascloseto  pitying.   “You think I’m a fool?” demanded Harry.   “No,Ithink you’re likeJames,” said Lupin, “who wouldhave regardedit as  the height of dishonor to mistrust his friends.”   Harry knew what Lupin was getting at: that his father had been betrayed  byhis friend,PeterPettigrew.He felt irrationally angry.Hewantedto argue,  but Lupin had turnedawayfrom him, set down his glass upona side table, and   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    addressedBill, “There’sworktodo,I canask Kingsley whether—”   “No,” said Bill at once, “I’ll do it, I’ll come.”   “Where are you going?” saidTonks and Fleur together.   “Mad-Eye’s body,” said Lupin. “We need to recover it.”   “Can’t it—?” began Mrs.Weasley with an appealing look at Bill.   “Wait?” said Bill. “Not unless you’drather the Death Eaters took it?”   Nobody spoke. Lupin and Bill said good bye and left.   The rest of them now dropped into chairs, all except Harry, who remained  standing. The suddenness and completeness of death was with them like a  presence.   “I’ve got to go to,” said Harry.   Ten pairs of startled eyes looked at him.   “Don’tbe silly, Harry,” said Mrs.Weasley, “What are you talking about?”   “I can’t stayhere.”   He rubbed his forehead; it was prickling again. It had not hurt like this for  more than a year.   “You’re allin danger while I’m here.Idon’twant—”   “But don’t be so silly!” said Mrs. Weasley. “The whole point of tonight was  to get you here safely, and thank goodness it worked. And Fleur’s agreed to get  married here rather thaninFrance, and we’ve arranged everything so that we  can all staytogether and look after you—”   She did not understand; she was making him feel worse, not better.   “IfVoldemort finds out I’m here—”   “But why should he?” asked Mrs.Weasley.   “Thereareadozenplacesyoumightbenow,Harry,”saidMr.Weasley. “He’s  got no wayof knowing whichsafe house you’re in.”   “It’s not me I’m worried for!” said Harry.   “We know that,” said Mr. Weasley quietly. “but it would make our efforts  tonight seem rather pointless if you left.”   ‘Yer not goin’ anywhere,” growled Hagrid. “Blimey, Harry, after all we wen’  through ter get you here?”   
 “Yeah, what about my bleeding ear?” said George, hoisting himself upon his  cushions.   “I know that—”   “Mad—Eye wouldn’t want—”   “I KNOW!” Harry bellowed.   He felt beleaguered and blackmailed. Did they think he did not know what  they had done for him, didn’t they understand that it was for precisely that  reason that he wanted to go now, before they had to suffer any more on his  behalf? There was a long and awkward silence in whichhis scar continued to  prickleand throb,andwhich was brokenatlastbyMrs.Weasley.   “Where’s Hedwig, Harry?” she said coaxingly. “We can put her up with  Pigwidgeon and giver her something to eat.”   His insides clenched like a fist. He could not tell her the truth. He drank  the last of his firewhisky to avoid answering.   “Wait till it gets out yeh did it again, Harry,” said Hagrid. “Escaped him,  fought him off when he was right on top of yeh!”   “It wasn’t me,” said Harry flatly. “It was my wand. My wand acted of its  own accord.”   After a few moments, Hermione said gently, “But that’s impossible, Harry.  You mean that you did magic without meaning to, you reacted instinctively.”   “No,” said Harry. “The bike was falling. I couldn’t have told you where  Voldemort was, but my wand spun in my hand and found him and shot a spell  at him, anditwasn’t evena spellI recognized. I’ve never made gold flames  appear before.”   “Often,” said Mr. Weasley, “when you’re in a pressured situation you can  often produce magic you’ve never dreamed of. Small children often find, before  they’re trained—”   “Itwasn’t like that,” said Harry, through gritted teeth. His carwas burning.  He felt angry and frustrated; he hated the idea that they were all imagining  himtohave powerto matchVoldemort’s   No one said anything. He knew that they did not believe him. Now that he   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    came to think of it, he had never heard of a wand performing magic on its own  before.   His scar seared with pain; it was all he could do not to moan aloud. Mutter  about fresh air, he set his glass down and left the room.   As he crossed the dark yard, the great skeletal thestral looked up, rustled  its enormous batlike wings, then resumed its grazing. Harry stopped at the  gate into the garden, staring out at its overgrown plants, rubbing his pounding  forehead and thinking of Dumbledore.   Dumbledore would have believed him, he knew it. Dumbledore would have  known how and why Harry’s wand had acted independently, because Dumbledore  always had the answers; he had known about wands, had explained  to Harry the strange connection that existed between his wand and Voldemort’s....  But Dumbledore, like Mad-Eye, like Sirius, like his parents, like  his poor owl, all were gone where Harry could never talk to them again. He  felta burninginhis throatthathad nothingtodowith firewhisky....   And then, out of nowhere, the pain in his scar peaked. As he clutched his  forehead and closed his eyes, a voice screamed inside his head.   “You told me the problem would be solved by using another’s wand!”   And into his mind burst the vision of an emaciated old man lying in rags  upon a stone floor, screaming, a horrible, drawn-out scream, a scream of unendurable  agony....   “No! No!Ibeg you,Ibeg you.... ”   “You lied to LordVoldemort, Ollivander!”   “I did not....I swearIdid not.... ”   “You sought to helpPotter, to help him escape me!”   “I swearIdid not....Ibelieveda differentwand would work.... ”   “Explain, then, what happened. Lucius’s wand is destroyed!”   “I cannot understand....The connection...existsonly...betweenyourtwo  wands.... ”   “Lies!”   “Please....Ibeg you.... ”   
 AndHarrysawthe whitehand raiseitswantandfeltVoldemort’s surgeof  vicious anger, saw the frail old man on the floor writhe in agony—   “Harry?”   It was over as quickly as it had come: Harry stood shaking in the darkness,  clutching the gate into the garden, his heart racing, his scar still tingling. It  was several moments before he realized that Ron and Hermione were at his  side.   “Harry, come back in the house,” Hermione whispered. “You aren’t still  thinking of leaving?”   “Yeah, you’ve got to stay, mate,” said Ron, thumping Harry on the back.   “Are you all right?” Hermione asked, close enough now to look into Harry’s  face. “You look awful!”   “Well,” said Harry shakily,“I probably look better than Ollivander.... ”   When he had finished telling them what he had seen, Ron looked appalled,  but Hermione downright terrified.   “But it was supposed to have stopped! Your scar—it wasn’t supposed to do  this anymore! You mustn’t let that connection open up again—Dumbledore  wanted you to close your mind!”   When he did not reply, she gripped his arm.   “Harry, he’s taking over the Ministry and the newspapers and half theWizarding  world! Don’t let him inside your head too!”   
 CHAPTER  5.  FALLEN  WARRIOR    
 Chapter  6    The  Ghoul  in  Pajamas    T T he shock of losing Mad-Eye hung over the house in the days that  followed; Harry kept expecting to see him stumping in through the  backdoor like the other Order members, who passed in and out to  relay news. Harry felt that nothing but action would assuage his feelings of  guilt and grief and that he ought to set out on his mission to find and destroy  Horcruxes as soon as possible.   “Well, you can’t do anything about the”—Ron mouthed the word Horcruxes—  “till you’re seventeen. You’ve still got the Trace on you. And we can plan here  as well as anywhere, can’t we? Or,” he dropped his voice to a whisper, “d’you  reckon you already know where theYou-Know-Whats are?”   “No,” Harry admitted.   “I think Hermione’s been doing a bit of research,” said Ron. “She said she  was saving it for when you got here.”   They were sitting at the breakfast table; Mr.Weasley and Bill had just left  for work.Mrs.Weasleyhadgone upstairstowake HermioneandGinny, while  Fleur had drifted off to take a bath.   “The Trace’ll break on the thirty-first,” said Harry. “That meansIonly need  to stayhere fourdays. ThenIcan—”   “Five days,” Ron corrected him firmly. “We’ve got to stayfor the wedding.   79   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    They’ll kill us if we miss it.”   Harry understood “they” to mean Fleur and Mrs.Weasley.   “It’s one extra day,” said Ron, when Harry looked mutinous.   “Don’t they realize how important—?”   “’Course they don’t,” said Ron. “They haven’t got a clue. And now you mentionit, I wanttotalktoyou about that.”   Ron glanced toward the door into the hall to checkthat Mrs. Weasley was  not returning yet, then leaned in closer to Harry.   “Mum’s been trying to get it out of Hermione and me. What we’re off to  do. She’ll try you next, so brace yourself. Dad and Lupin’ve both asked us as  well, but when we said Dumbledore told you not to tell anyone except us, they  dropped it. Not Mum, though. She’s determined.”   Ron’sprediction came true within hours. Shortly before lunch, Mrs.Weasley  detached Harry from the others by asking him to help identify a lone man’s  sock that she thought might’ve come out of his rucksack. Once she had him  cornered in the tiny scullery of the kitchen, she started.   “Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of you are dropping out of  Hogwarts,” she began in a light, casual tone.   “Oh,” said Harry. “Well, yeah.We are.”   The mangle turned of its own accordin a corner, wringing what looked like  oneofMr.Weasley’s vests.   “MayIask why you are abandoning your education?” said Mrs.Weasley.   “Well, Dumbledoreleftme...stufftodo,” mumbledHarry. “Ronand Hermione  know about it, and they want to come too.”   “What sortof ’stuff’?”   “I’m sorry,Ican’t—”   “Well, franklyIthink ArthurandIhavearighttoknowandI’m sureMr.  and Mrs. Granger would agree!” said Mrs. Weasley. Harry had been afraid of  the “concerned parent” attack. He forced himself to look directly into her eyes,  noticingashedidthattheywere preciselythesameshadeofbrownasGinny’s.  This did not help.   
 “Dumbledore didn’twant anyone else to know, Mrs.Weasley. I’m sorry, Ron  and Hermione don’t have to come, it’s their choice—”   “I don’t see that you have to go either!” she snapped, dropping all pretense  now. “You’re barely of age, any of you! It’s utter nonsense, if Dumbledore  needed work doing, he had the whole Order at his command! Harry, you must  have misunderstood him. Probably he was telling you something he wanted  done, and you took it to mean that he wanted you—”   “I didn’t misunderstand,” said Harry flatly. “It’s got to be me.”   He handed her back the single stock he was supposed to be identifying,  which was patterned with golden bulrushes.   “And that’s not mine,Idon’t support Puddlemere United.”   “Oh,of course not,” said Mrs.Weasley witha sudden and rather unnerving  returntoher casual tone.“I shouldhave realized.Well,Harry, while we’ve still  got you here, you won’t mind helping with the preparations for Bill and Fleur’s  wedding, will you? There’s still so muchto do.”   “No—I—of course not,” said Harry, disconcerted by this sudden change of  subject.   “Sweet of you,” she replied, and she smiled as she left the scullery.   From that moment on, Mrs. Weasley keep Harry, Ron, and Hermione so  busy with preparations for the wedding that they hardly had any time to think.  The kindest explanation of this behavior would have been that Mrs. Weasley  wanted to distract them all from thoughts of Mad-Eye and the terrors of their  recentjourney. Aftertwodaysofnonstopcutlerycleaning,ofcolor-matchingfavors,  ribbons, and flowers,of de-gnoming the garden and helping Mrs.Weasley  cook vast batchesof canap´  es, however, Harry started to suspect her of a different  motive. All the jobs she handed out seems to keep him, Ron, and Hermione  awayfrom one another; he had not had a chance to speak to the two of them  alone since the first night, when he had told them aboutVoldemort torturing  Ollivander.   “I think Mum thinks that if she can stop the three of you getting together  and planning, she’ll be able to delayyou leaving,” Ginny told Harry in an un   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    dertone, as they laid the table for dinner on the third night of his stay.   “And then what does she think’s going to happen?” Harry muttered. “Someone  else might kill offVoldemort while she’s holding us here making vol-auvents?”    He had spoken without thinking, and saw Ginny’s face whiten.   “So it’s true?” She said, “That’s what you’re trying to do?”   “I—not—I was joking,” said Harry evasively.   They stared at each other, and there was something more than shock in  Ginny’s expression. Suddenly Harry became aware that this was the first time  that he had been alone with her since their stolen hours in secluded corners of  the Hogwarts grounds. He was sure she was remembering them too. Both of  them jumped as the door opened, and Mr. Weasley, Kingsley, and Bill walked  in.   They were often joined by other Order members for dinner now, because  the Burrow had replaced number twelve, Grimmauld Place as the headquarters.  Mr. Weasley had explained that after the death of Dumbledore, their  Secret-Keeper, each of the people to whom Dumbledore had confided Grimmauld  Place’s location had becomea SecretPeoplein turn.   “And as there are around twenty of us, that greatly dilutes the power of the  Fidelius Charm. Twenty times as many opportunities for the Death Eaters to  getthe secretoutofsomebody.Wecan’texpectittoholdmuchlonger.”   “But surely Snape will have told the Death Eaters the address by now?”  asked Harry.   “Well, Mad-Eye set up a couple of curses against Snape in case he turns  up there again. We hope they’ll be strong enough both to keep him out and  to bind his tongue if he tries to talk about the place, but we can’t be sure. It  would have been insane to keep using the place as headquarters now that its  protection has become so shaky.”   The kitchen was so crowded that evening was difficult to maneuver knives  and forks. Harry found himself crammed beside Ginny; the unsaid things that  had just passed between them made him wish they had been separated by a   
 few more people. He was trying to hard to avoid brushing her arm he could   barely cut his chicken.   “No news about Mad-Eye?” Harry asked Bill.   “Nothing,” replied Bill.   They had not been able to hold a funeral for Moody, because Bill and Lupin  had failed to recover his body. It had been difficult to know where he might  have fallen, given the darkness and the confusion of the battle.   “The DailyProphet hasn’t said a word about him dying or about finding the  body,” Bill went on. “But that doesn’t mean much. It’s keepinga lot quiet these  days.”   “And they stillhaven’t calleda hearing about all the underage magicIused  escapingthe Death Eaters?” Harry called acrossthe tabletoMr.Weasley,who  shook his head.   “Because they knowI had nochoice or because they don’twant me to tell  the worldVoldemort attacked me?” “The latter,I think. Scrimgeour doesn’t  want to admit thatYou-Know-Who is as powerful as he is, nor that Azkaban’s  seen a mass breakout.”   “Yeah, why tell the public the truth?” said Harry, clenching his knife so  tightly that the faint scars on the back of his right hand stood out, white  against his skin: Imust not tell lies.   “Isn’t anyone at the Ministry prepared to stand up to him?” asked Ron  angrily.   “Of course, Ron, but people are terrified.” Mr. Weasley replied, “terrified  thattheywillbenexttodisappear,theirchildrenthenexttobeattacked! There  are nasty rumors going around;Ifor one don’t believe the Muggle Studies professor  at Hogwarts resigned. She hasn’t been seen for weeks now. Meanwhile  Scrimgeour remains shut up in his office all day. I just hope he’s working on  a plan. There was a pause in whichMrs. Weasley magicked her empty plates  onto the work surface and served apple tart.   “We must decide ’ow you will be disguised,’Arry,” said Fleur, once everyone  had pudding. “For ze wedding,” she added, when he looked confused. “Of   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    course, none of our guests are Death Eaters, but we cannot guarantee zat zey   will not let something slip after zey ’aev ’ad champagne.”   From this, Harry gathered that she still suspected Hagrid.   “Yes, good point,” said Mrs. Weasley from the top of the table, where she  sat, spectacles perched on the end of her nose, scanning an immense list of jobs  that she had scribbled on a very long piece of parchment. “Now, Ron, have you  cleaned out your room yet?”   “Why?” exclaimed Ron, slamming his spoon down and glaring at his mother.  “Whydoesmy roomhavetobecleanedout?HarryandI arebothfinewithit  the wayit is!”   “We are holding your brother’s wedding here in a few days’ time, young  man—”   “And are they getting married in my bedroom?” asked Ron furiously. “No!  So why in the name of Merlin’s saggy left—”   “Don’t you talk to your mother like that,” said Mr. Weasley firmly, “And do  as you’re told.”   Ron scowled at both his parents, then picked up his spoon and attacked the  last few mouthfuls of his apple tart.   “I can help, some of it’s my mess.” Harry told Ron, but Mrs. Weasley cut  across him.   “No, Harry, dear, I’dmuchrather you helped Arthur muckout the chickens,  and Hermione, I’dbe ever so grateful if you’d change the sheets for Monsieur  and Madame Delacour, you know they’re arriving at eleven tomorrow morning.”    But as it turned out, there was very little to do for the chickens,   “There’snoneedto,er, mentionittoMolly,”Mr.WeasleytoldHarry,blockinghis  accesstothecoop,“but,er,TedTonkssentmemostofwhatwasleftof  Sirius’s bike, and, er, I’m hiding—that’s to say, keeping—it in here. Fantastic  stuff! There’s an exhaust gaskin, asIbelieve it’s called, the most magnificent  battery, and it’ll be a great opportunity to find out how brakes work. I’m going  to try and put it all backtogether again when Molly’s not—I mean, when I’ve   
 got time.”   Whenthey returnedtothe house,Mrs.Weasleywas nowheretobe seen,so  Harry slipped upstairs to Ron’s attic bedroom.   “I’m doing it, I’m doing—! Oh, it’s you,” said Ron in relief, as Harry entered  the room. Ron laybackdown on the bed, whichhe had evidently just vacated.  The room was just as messy as it had been all week; the only change was that  Hermionewas now sittingin the far corner, her fluffy ginger cat, Crookshanks,  at her feet, sorting books, some of whichHarry recognized as his own, into two  enormous piles.   “Hi, Harry,” she said, as he sat down on his camp bed.   “And how did you manage to get away?”   “Oh, Ron’s mum forgot that she asked Ginny and me to change the sheets  yesterday,” said Hermione. She threw Numerology and Grammatica onto one  pile and Rise andFallof the DarkArts onto the other.   “We were justtalking about Mad-Eye,” Ron told Harry. “I reckon he might  have survived.”   “But Bill saw him hit by the Killing Curse,” said Harry.   “Yeah, but Bill was under attacktoo,” said Ron. “How can he be sure what  he saw?”   “Even if the Killing curse missed, Mad Eye still fell about a thousand feet,”  said Hermione, now weighing QuidditchTeams of Britain and Ireland in her  hand.   “He could have used a Shield Charm—”   “Fleur said his wand was blasted out of his hand,” said Harry.   “Well,allright,ifyouwanthimtobedead,”saidRon grumpily,punching  his pillow into a more comfortable shape.   “Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said Hermione, looking shocked.  “It’s dreadful that he’s dead! But we’re being realistic!”   For the first time, Harry imagined Mad—Eye’s body, broken as Dumbledore’shadbeen, yetwiththatoneeyestill whizzinginitssocket.Hefeltastab  of revulsion mixed with a bizarre desire to laugh.   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    “The Death Eaters probably tidied up after themselves, that’s why no one’s  found him,” said Ron wisely.   “Yeah,” said Harry. “Like Barty Crouch, turned into a bone and buried in  Hagrid’s front garden. They probably transfigured Moody and stuffed him—”   “Don’t!” squealed Hermione. Startled, Harry looked over just in time to see  her burst into tears over her copy of Spellman’s Syllabary.   “Oh no,” said Harry, struggling to get up from the old camp bed. “Hermione,  Iwasn’t trying to upset—”   But with a great creaking of rusty bedsprings, Ron bounded off the bed and  got there first. One arm around Hermione, he fished in his jeans pocket and  withdrew a revolting-looking handkerchief that he had used to clean out the  over earlier. Hastily pulling out his wand, he pointed it at the rag and said,  “Tergeo.”   The wand siphoned off most of the grease. Looking rather pleased with  himself, Ron handed the slightly smoking handkerchief to Hermione.   “Oh... thanks, Ron.... I’m sorry.... ” She blewher noseand hiccuped. “It’s  justsoawf-ful, isn’tit? R-right after Dumbledore ...Ij-just n-never imagined  Mad-Eye dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!”   “Yeah, I know,” said Ron, giving her a squeeze. “But you know what he’d  sayto us if he was here?”   “’C-constant vigilance,”’ said Hermione, mopping her eyes.   “That’s right,” said Ron, nodding. “He’d tell us to learn from what happened  to him. And what I’ve learned is not to trust that cowardly little squit,  Mundungus.”   Hermione gave a shaky laugh and leaned forward to pick up two more  books. Asecond later, Ron had snatched his arm backfrom around her shoulders;  she had dropped The Monster Book of Monsterson his foot. The book had  broken free from its restraining belt and snapped viciously at Ron’s ankle.   “I’m sorry! I’m sorry!” Hermione cried as Harry wrenched the book from  Ron’s leg and retied it shut.   “What are you doing with all those books anyway?” Ron asked, limping   
 backto his bed.   “Just trying to decide which ones to take with us,” said Hermione. “When  we’re looking for the Horcruxes.”   “Oh, of course,” said Ron, clapping a hand to his forehead. “I forgot we’ll be  hunting downVoldemortina mobile library.”   “Ha ha,” said Hermione, looking down at Spellman’s Syllabary. “I wonder  ...willwe needto translate runes? It’s possible....Ithinkwe’dbetter takeit,  to be safe.”   She dropped the syllabary onto the larger of the two piles and picked up   Hogwarts,AHistory.   “Listen,” said Harry.   He had sat up straight. Ron and Hermione looked at him with similar  mixtures of resignation and defiance.   “I know you said after Dumbledore’s funeral that you wanted to come with  me,” Harry began.   “Here he goes,” Ron said to Hermione, rolling his eyes.   “As we knew he would,” she sighed, turning back to the books. “You know,  IthinkIwill take Hogwarts,AHistory. Even if we’re not going backthere,I  don’t thinkI’dfeel rightifIdidn’thaveit with—”   “Listen!” said Harry again.   “No, Harry, you listen,” said Hermione. “We’re coming with you. That was  decided months ago—years, really.”   “But—”   “Shut up,” Ron advised him.   “—are you sure you’ve thought this through?” Harry persisted.   “Let’s see,” said Hermione, slamming Travels withTrollsonto the discarded  pile with a rather fierce look. “I’ve been packing for days, so we’re ready to  leave at a moment’s notice, which for your information has included doing  some pretty difficult magic, not to mention smuggling Mad-Eye’s whole stock  ofPolyjuicePotion right under Ron’s mum’s nose.   “I’ve also modified my parents’ memories so that they’re convinced that   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    they’re really calledWendell and MonicaWilkins, and that their life’s ambition  is to move to Australia, whichthey have now done. That’s to make it more  difficult forVoldemort to trackthem down and interrogate them about me—or  you, because unfortunately, I’ve told them quite a bit about you.   “AssumingIsurvive our hunt for the Horcruxes, I’ll find Mum and Dad and  lift the enchantment. IfI don’t—well,I think I’ve casta good enoughcharm  to keep them safe and happy. Wendell and Monica Wilkins don’t know that  they’ve got a daughter, you see.”   Hermione’s eyes were swimming with tears again. Ron got backoff the bed,  put his arms around her once more, and frowned at Harry as though reproaching  him for lack of tact. Harry could not think of anything to say, not least  because it was highly unusual for Ron to be teaching anyone else tact.   “I—Hermione, I’m sorry—I didn’t—”   “Didn’t realize that Ron andIknow perfectly well what might happenif we  come with you?Well, wedo. Ron, show Harry what you’ve done.”   “Nah, he’s just eaten,” said Ron.   “Go on, he needs to know!”   “Oh, all right. Harry, come here.”   For the second time Ron withdrew his arm from around Hermione and  stumped over to the door.   “C’mon.”   “Why?” Harry asked, following Ron out of the room onto the tiny landing.   “Descendo,” muttered Ron, pointing his wand at the low ceiling. A hatch  opened right over their heads and a ladder slid down to their feet. Ahorrible,  half-sucking, half, moaning sound came out of the square hole, along with an  unpleasant smell like open drains.   “That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Harry, who had never actually met the  creature that sometimes disrupted the nightly silence.   “Yeah, it is,” said Ron, climbing the ladder. “Come and have a look at him.”   Harry followed Ron up the few short steps into the tiny attic space. His  head and shoulders were in the room before he caught sight of the creature   
 89   curled up a few feet from him, fast asleep in the gloom with its large mouth   wide open.   “Butit...it looks...do ghouls normally wear pajamas?”   “no,” said Ron. “Nor have they usually got red hair or that number of pustules.”    Harry contemplated the thing, slightly revolted. It was human in shape  and size, and was wearing what, now that Harry’s eyes became used to the  darkness,wasclearlyanoldpairofRon’spajamas.hewasalso surethatghouls  were generally rather slimy and bald, rather than distinctly hairy and covered  in angry purple blisters.   “He’s me, see?” said Ron.   “No,” said Harry. “I don’t.”   “I’ll explain it backin my room, the smell’s getting to me,” said Ron. They  climbed backdown the ladder, whichRon returned to the ceiling, and rejoined  Hermione, who was still sorting books.   “Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live down here in my room,”  said Ron. “I think he’s really looking forward to it—well, it’s hard to tell, because  all he can do is moan and drool—but he nods a lot when you mention it.  Anyway, he’s going to be me with spattergroit. Good, eh?”   Harry merely looked his confusion.   “It is!” said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not grasped the brilliance  of the plan. “Look, when we three don’t turn up at Hogwarts again,everyone’s  going to think Hermione and I must be with you, right? Which means the  Death Eaters will go straight for our families to see if they’ve got information  on where you are.”   “But hopefully it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum and Dad; a lot of  Muggle—borns are talking about going into hiding at the moment,” said Hermione.   “We can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and they can’t allleave  their jobs,” said Ron. “So we’re going to put out the story that I’m seriously  ill with spattergroit, which is whyI can’t go back to school. If anyone comes  calling to investigate, Mum or dad can show then the ghoul in my bed, cov   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    ered in pustules. Spattergroit’s really contagious, so they’re not going to want  to go near him. It won’t matter that he can’t say anything, either, because  apparently you can’t once the fungus has spread to your uvula.”   “And your mum and dad are in on this plan?” asked Harry.   “Dad is. He helpedFred and George transform the ghoul. Mum ... well,  you’ve seen what she’s like. She won’t accept we’re going till we’ve gone.”   There was silence in the room, broken only by gentle thuds as Hermione  continued to throw books into one pile or the other. Ron sat watching her, and  Harry looked from one to the other. The measures they had taken to protect  their families made him realize, more than anything else could have done, that  they really were going to come with him and that they knew exactly how dangerous  that would be. He wanted to tell them what that meant to him, but he  simply could not find words important enough.   Through the silence came the muffled sounds of Mrs. Weasley shouting  from four floors below.   “Ginny’s probably left a speckof dust on a poxy napkin ring,” said Ron. “I  dunno why the Delacours have got to come two days before the weddings.”   “Fleur’s sister’s a bridesmaid, she needs to be here for the rehearsal, and  she’s too young to come on her own,” said Hermione, as she pored indecisively  over Break with a Banshee.   “Well, guests aren’t going to help Mum’s stress levels,” said Ron.   “what we really need to decide,” said Hermione, tossing Defensive Magical  Theory into the bin without a second glance and picking up An Appraisal of  Magical Education in Europe,“is where we’re going after we leave here.Iknow  yousaidyouwantedtogoto Godric’sHollowfirst,Harry,andIunderstandwhy,  but ... well ... shouldn’t we make the Horcruxes our priority?”   “If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, I’d agree with you,” said  Harry, who did not believe that Hermione really understood his desire to Godric’s  Hollow. His parents graves were only part of the attraction: He had  a strong, though inexplicable, feeling that the place held answers for him.  Perhapsitwas simply becauseitwas there thathe had survivedVoldemort’s   
 KillingCurse;nowthathewasfacingthechallengeof repeatingthefeat,Harry  was drawn to the place where it happened, wanting to understand.   “Don’t you think there’sa possibility thatVoldemort’s keepingawatch on  Godric’s Hollow?” Hermione asked. “He might expect you to go backand visit  your parents’ graves once you’re free to go wherever you like?”   This had not occurred to Harry. While he struggled to find a counterargument,  Ron spoke up, evidently following his own train of thought.   “This R.A.B. person,” he said, “You know, the one who stole the real locket?”   Hermione nodded.   “He said in his note that he was going to destroy it, didn’t he?”   Harry dragged his rucksacktoward him and pulled out the fake Horcrux in   whichR.A.B.’s note was still folded.  “‘I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it as soon asI can,’”   Harry read out.   “Well, what if he did finish it off?” said Ron.   “Or she.” interposed Hermione.   “Whichever,” said Ron, “it’dbe one less for us to do!”   “Yes,but we’re still going to have to try and trace the real locket, aren’t we?”  said Hermione, “to find out whether or not it’s destroyed.”   “And once we get hold of it, how do you destroy a Horcrux?” asked Ron.   “Well,” said Hermione, “I’ve been researching that.”   “How?” asked Harry. “I didn’t think there were any books on Horcruxes in  the library?”   “There weren’t,” said Hermione, who had turned pink. “Dumbledore removed  them all, but he—he didn’t destroy them.”   Ron sat up straight, wide-eyed.   “It—it wasn’t stealing!” said Hermione, looking from Harry to Ron with a  kind of desperation. “They were still library books, even if Dumbledore had  taken them off the shelves. Anyway, if he really didn’t want anyone to get at  them, I’m sure he would have made it muchharder to—”   “Get to the point!” said Ron.   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    “Well...itwaseasy,”said Hermioneinasmallvoice.“Ijustdida Summoning  Charm.You know—Accio. And...they zoomed outof Dumbledore’s study  window right into the girls’ dormitory.”   “But when did you do this?” Harry asked, regarding Hermione with a mixture  of admiration and incredulity.   “Just after his—Dumbledore’s—funeral,” said Hermione in an even smaller  voice. “Right after we agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the Horcruxes.  WhenIwentbackupstairstogetmy things it—itjust occurredtome  thatthe moreweknew aboutthem,the betterit wouldbe...andI was alone  inthere...soItried...andit worked.Theyflewstraightinthroughtheopen  window and I—I packed them.”   She swallowed and then said imploringly,“I can’t believe Dumbledore would  have been angry, it’s not as though we’re going to use the information to make  a Horcrux, is it?”   “Can you hear us complaining?” said Ron. “Where are these books anyway?”   Hermione rummaged fora moment and then extracted from the pilea large  volume,boundin faded blackleather. She lookeda little nauseated and heldit  as gingerly as if it were something recently dead.   “This is the one that gives explicit instructions on how to make a Horcrux.  Secrets of the Darkest Art—it’s a horrible book, really awful, full of evil magic.  I wonder when Dumbledore removed it from the library.... If he didn’t do it  untilhewas headmaster,IbetVoldemortgotallthe instructionhe neededfrom  here.”   “Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a Horcrux, then, if he’d  already read that?” asked Ron.   “He only approached Slughorn to find out what would happen if you split  your soul into seven,” said Harry. “Dumbledore was sure Riddle already knew  how to make a Horcrux but the time he asked Slughorn about them. I think  you’re right, Hermione, that could easily have been where he got the information.”    “And the more I’ve read about them,” said Hermione, “the more horrible   
 theyseem,andthelessIcan believethatheactuallymadesix.Itwarnsinthis  book how unstable you make the rest of your soul by ripping it, and that’s just  by making one Horcrux!”   Harry remembered what Dumbledore had said aboutVoldemort moving beyond  “usual evil.”   “Isn’t there any wayof putting yourself backtogether?” Ron asked.   “Yes,” said Hermione witha hollow smile, “butit wouldbe excruciatingly  painful.”   “Why? How do you do it?” asked Harry.   “Remorse,” said Hermione. “You’ve got to really feel what you’ve done.  There’sa footnote. Apparently the painofit can destroy you.Ican’t seeVoldemort  attempting it somehow, can you?”   “No,” said Ron, before Harry could answer. “So does it sayhow to destroy  Horcruxes in that book?”   “Yes,” said Hermione, now turning the fragile pages as if examining rotting  entrails. “because it warns Dark wizards how strong they have to make the  enchantments on them. From all that I’ve read, what Harry did to Riddle’s  diary was one of the really foolproof ways of destroying a Horcrux.”   “What, stabbing it with a basilisk fang?” asked Harry.   “Oh well, lucky we’ve got such a large supply of basilisk fangs, then,” said  Ron. “I was wondering what we were going to do with them.”   “It doesn’t have to be a basilisk fang,” said Hermione patiently. “It has to be  something so destructive that the Horcrux can’t repair itself. Basilisk venom  only has one antidote, and it’s incredibly rare—”   “—phoenix tears,” said Harry, nodding.   “Exactly,” said Hermione, “Our problem is that the are very few substances  as destructive as basilisk venom, and they’re all dangerous to carry around  with you. That’saproblem we’re goingtohaveto solve though, because ripping,  smashing, or crushinga Horcruxwon’tdothetrick.You’vegottoputitbeyond  magical repair.”   “But even if we wreckthe thing it lives in,” said Ron, “Why can’t the bit of   
 94 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    soul in it just go and live in something else?”   “Because a Horcrux is the complete opposite of a human being.”   Seeing that Harry and Ron looked thoroughly confused, Hermione hurried  on, “Look,ifIpickedupaswordrightnow,Ron,andranyou throughwithit,I  wouldn’t damage your soul at all.”   “Whichwould be a real comfort to me, I’m sure,” said Ron. Harry Laughed.   “It should be, actually! But my point is that whatever happens to your  body, your soul will survive untouched,” said Hermione. “But it’s the other way  round with a Horcrux. The fragment of soul inside it depends on it’s container,  its enchanted body, for survival, It can’t exist without it.”   “That diary sort of died whenI stabbed it,” said Harry, remembering ink  pouring like blood from the punctured pages, and the screams of the piece of  Voldemort’s soul as it vanished.   “And once the diary was properly destroyed, the bit of soul trapped in it  could no longer exist. Ginny tried to get rid of the diary before you did, flushing  it away, but obviously it came backgood as new.”   “Hang on,” said Ron, frowning. “The bit of soul in that diary was possessing  Ginny, wasn’t it? How does that work, then?”   “ While the magical container is still intact, the bit of soul inside it can flit  inandoutof someoneiftheygettooclosetothe object.Idon’t mean holdingit  for long, it’s nothing to do with touching it,” she added before Ron could speak.  “ I mean close emotionally. Ginny poured her heart out into that diary, she  made herself incredibly vulnerable. You’re in trouble if you get too fond of or  dependent on the Horcrux.”   “I wonder how Dumbledore destroyed the ring?” said Harry. “Why didn’tI  ask him?I never really... ”   His voice tailed away: He was thinking of all the things he should have  asked Dumbledore, and of how, since the headmaster had died, it seemed to  Harry that he had wasted so many opportunities when Dumbledore had been  alive,to find out more...to find out everything ....   The silencewas shattered as the bedroom door flew open withawall-shaking   
 crash. Hermione shrieked and dropped Secrets of the Darkest Art. Crookshanks  streaked under the bed, hissing indignantly; Ron jumped off the bed, skidded  ona discarded ChocolateFrog wrapper, and smacked his head on the opposite  wall; and Harry instinctively dived for his wand before realizing that he was  looking up at Mrs. Weasley, whose hair was disheveled and whose face was  contorted with rage.   “I’m so sorry to break up this cozy little gathering,” she said, her voice trembling.  “ I’m sure you all need your rest ...but there are wedding presents  stackedinmy room that need sorting out andI was under the impression that  you had agreed to help.”   “Oh yes,” said Hermione, looking terrified as she leapt on her feet, sending  booksflyinginevery direction,“wewill...we’resorry... ”   With an anguished look at Harry and Ron, Hermione, hurried out of the  room after Mrs.Weasley.   “It’s like being a house-elf,” complained Ron in an undertone, still massaging  his head as he and Harry followed. “Except without the job satisfaction.  The sooner this wedding’s over, the happier I’ll be.”   “Yeah,” said Harry, “then we’llhave nothingtodo except find Horcruxes....  It’ll be like a holiday, won’t it?”   Ron started to laugh, but at the sight of the enormous pile of wedding  presentswaiting for themin Mrs.Weasley’s room, stopped quite abruptly.   The Delacours arrived the following morning at eleven o’clock. Harry, Ron,  Hermione, and Ginny were feeling quite resentful toward Fleur’s family by  this time, and it was with ill grace that Ron stumped backupstairs to put on  matching socks, and Harry attempted to flatten his hair. Once they had all  been deemed smart enough, they trooped out into the sunny backyard to await  the visitors.   Harry had never seen the place looking so tidy. The rusty cauldrons and  oldWellington boots that usually littered the stepsby the backdoor were gone,  replaced by two new Flutterby bushes standing either side of the door in large  pots, though there was no breeze, the leaves waved lazily, giving an attractive   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    rippling effect. The chickens had been shut away, the yard had been swept,  and the nearby garden had been pruned, plucked, and generally spruced up,  although Harry, who liked it in its overgrown state, thought that it looked  rather forlorn without its usually contingent of capering gnomes.   He had lost trackof how many security enhancements had been placed upon  the Burrow by both the Order and the Ministry; all he knew was that it was  no longer possible for anybody to travel by magic directly into the place. Mr.  Weasleyhad thereforegonetomeetthe Delacoursontopofanearbyhill,where  they wereto arrivebyPortkey. The first soundof their approachwasan unusually  high-pitchedlaugh,whichturnedouttobecomingfromMr.Weasley,who  appearedatthegate momentslater,ladenwithluggageandleadingabeautiful  blonde woman in long, leaf-green robes, who could only be Fleur’s mother.   “Maman!” cried Fleur, rushing forward to embrace her. “Papa!”   Monsieur Delacour was nowhere near as attractive as his wife; he was a  head shorter and extremely plump,witha little,pointed blackbeard. However,  he looked good-natured. Bouncing toward Mrs. Weasley on high-heeled boots,  he kissed her twice on each cheek, leaving her flustered.   “You ’ave been to muchtrouble,” he said in a deep voice. “Fleur tells us you  ’ave been working very ’ard.”   “Oh, it’s been nothing, nothing” trilled Mrs.Weasley. “No trouble at all.”   Ron relieved his feelings by aiming a kickat a gnome who was peering out  from behind one of the new Flutterby bushes.   “Dear lady!” said Monsieur Delacour, still holding Mrs. Weasley’s hand  between his two plump ones and beaming. “We are most honored at the approaching  union of our two families! Let me present my wife, Apolline.”   Madame Delacour glided forward and stooped to kiss Mrs. Weasley too.  “Enchant´ee,” she said. ”Your ’usband ’as been telling us suchamusing stories!”   Mr. Weasley gave a maniacal laugh; Mrs. Weasley threw him a look, upon  which he became immediately silent and assumed an expression appropriate  to the sickbed of a close friend.   “And, of course, you ’ave met my leetle daughter, Gabrielle!” said Monsieur   
 Delacour. Gabrielle was Fleur in miniature; eleven years old, with waist—  lengthhairofpure, silvery blonde,shegaveMrs.Weasleya dazzlingsmileand  hugged her, then threw Harry a glowing look, batting her eyelashes. Ginny  cleared her throat loudly.   “Well, com in, do!” said Mrs. Weasley brightly, and she ushered the Delacours  into the house, with many “No, please!”s and “After you!”s and “Not at  all!”s.   The Delacours, as it soon transpired, were helpful, pleasant guests. They  were pleased with everything and keen to assist with the preparations for the  wedding. Monsieur Delacour pronounced everything from the seating plan  to the bridesmaids’ shows “Charmant!” Madame Delacour was most accomplishedat  householdspellsandhadtheovenproperlycleanedinatrice; Gabrielle  followed her elder sister around, trying to assist in any wayshe could and jabberingawayin  rapidFrench.   Onthe downside,the Burrowwasnotbuiltto accommodatesomanypeople.  Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were now sleeping in the sitting room, having shouted  down Monsieur and Madame Delacour’s protests and insisted they take their  bedroom. Gabriellewas sleeping with FleurinPercy’s old room, and Bill would  be sharing with Charlie, his best man, once Charlie arrived from Romania.  Opportunitiesto make plans together became virtually nonexistent, anditwas  in desperation that Harry, Ron, and Hermione took to volunteering to feed the  chickens just to escape the overcrowded house.   “But she still won’t leave us alone!” snarled Ron, as their second attempt at  a meetingin the yardwas foiledby the appearanceof Mrs.Weasley carryinga  large basket of laundry in her arms.   “Oh, good, you’ve fed the chickens,” she called as she approached them.  “We’dbettershutthemawayagain beforethemen arrive tomorrow ...toput  up the tent for the wedding,” she explained, pausing to lean against the henhouse.  She looked exhausted. “Millamant’s Magic Marquees ... they’re very  good. Bill’s escorting them.... You’d better stay inside while they’re here,  Harry. I must say it does complicate organizing a wedding, having all these   
 CHAPTER  6.  THE  GHOUL  IN  PAJAMAS    security spells around the place.”   “I’m sorry,” said Harry humbly.   “Oh, don’t be silly, dear!” said Mrs. Weasley at once. “I didn’t mean—well,  your safety’s much more important! Actually, I’ve been wanting to ask you  how you want to celebrate your birthday, Harry. Seventeen, after all, it’s an  important day.... ”   “Idon’twantafuss,”saidHarryquickly, envisagingthe additionstrainthis  would put on them all. “Really, Mrs. Weasley, just a normal dinner would be  fine.... It’s thedaybefore the wedding.... ”   “Oh, well,if you’re sure, dear. I’ll invite Remus andTonks, shallI? And how  about Hagrid?”   “That’dbe great,” said Harry. “But please don’t go to loads of trouble.”   “Notatall, notatall...It’sno trouble.... ” She lookedathim,along,  searching look, then smiled a little sadly, straightened up, and walked away.  Harry watched as she waved her wand near the washing line, and the damp  clothes rose into the air to hang themselves up, and suddenly he felt a great  wave of remorse for the inconvenience and the pain he was giving her.   
 Chapter  7    The  Will  of  Albus  Dumbledore    H H e was walking along a mountain road in the cool blue light of  dawn. Far below, swathed in mist, was the shadow of a small  town.Was the manhe sought down there, the manhe needed so  badly he could think of little else, the man who held the answer, the answer to  his problem ...?   “Oi, wake up,”   Harry opened his eyes. He was lying again on the camp bed in Ron’s dingy  attic room. The sun had not yet risen and the room was still shadowy. Pig- widgeon was asleep with his head under his tiny wing. the scar on Harry’s  forehead was prickling.   “You were muttering in your sleep.”   “Was I?”   “Yeah. ‘Gregorovitch.’You kept saying ‘Gregorovitch.”’   Harry was not wearing his glasses; Ron’s face appeared slightly blurred.   “Who’s Gregorovitch?”   “I dunno,doI?You were the one saying it.”   Harryrubbedhis forehead,thinking.Hehadavagueideahehadheardthe   99   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    name before, but he could not think where.   “I thinkVoldemort’s looking for him.”   “Poor bloke,” said Ron fervently.   Harry sat up, still rubbing his scar, now wide awake. He tried to remember  exactly what he had seen in the dream, but all that came back was a mountainous  horizon and the outline of the little village cradled in a deep valley.   “I think he’s abroad.”   “Who, Gregorovitch?”   “Voldemort. I think he’s somewhere abroad, looking for Gregorovitch. It  didn’t look like anywhere in Britain.”   “You reckon you were seeing into his mind again?”   Ron sounded worried.   “Do me a favor and don’t tell Hermione,” said Harry. “Although how she  expectsmetostopseeing stuffinmysleep... ”   He gazedupat little Pigwidgeon’s cage,thinking ...Whywasthe name  “Gregorovitch” familiar?   “I think,” he said slowly, “he’s got something to do with Quidditch. there’s  some connection,butIcan’t—I can’t thinkwhatitis.”   “Quidditch?” said Ron. “Sure you’re not thinking of Gorgovitch?”   “Who?”   “Dragomir Gorgovitch, Chaser, transferred to the Chudley Cannons for a  record fee two years ago. Record holder for most Quaffle drops in a season.”   “No,” said Harry, “I’m definitely not think of Gorgovitch.”   “I try not to either,” said Ron. “Well, happy birthdayanyway.”   “Wow—that’s right,Iforgot! I’m seventeen.”   Harry seizedthewandlying besidehiscampbed, pointeditatthecluttered  desk where he had left his glasses, and said “Accio Glasses!” Although they  were only arounda footaway,therewas something immensely satisfying about  seeing them zoom toward him, or at least until they poked him in the eye.   “Slick,” snorted Ron.   Reveling in the removal of his Trace, Harry sent Ron’s possessions flying   
 around the room, causing Pigwidgeon to wake up flutter excitedly around his  cage. Harry also tried tying the laces of his trainers by magic (the resultant  knot took several minutes to untie by hand) and, purely for the pleasure of it,  turned the orange robes on Ron’s Chudley Cannons posters right blue.   “I’ddoyourflybyhand, though,”Ron advisedHarry,sniggeringwhenHarry  immediately checked it. “Here’s your present. Unwrap it up here, it’s not for  my mother’s eyes.”   “Abook?” said Harry as he took the rectangular parcel. “Bit of a departure  from tradition, isn’t it?”   “This isn’t your average book,” said Ron. “It’s pure gold: TwelveFail-Safe  Ways to CharmWitches. Explains everything you need to know about girls. If  only I’d had this last year I’d have known exactly how to get rid of Lavender  andI wouldn’t have known how to get going with ...Well,Fred and George  gave me a copy, and I’ve learned a lot. You’d be surprised, it’s not all about  wandwork, either.”   When they arrived in the kitchen they found a pile of presents waiting on  the table. Bill and Monsieur Delacour were finishing their breakfasts, while  Mrs.Weasleystoodchattingtothem overthefryingpan.   “Arthurtoldmetowishyouahappy seventeenth,Harry,”saidMrs.Weasley,  beaming at him. ”He had to leave early for work, but he’ll be backfor dinner.  That’s our present on top.”   Harry sat down, took the square parcel she had indicated, and unwrapped  it. Inside was a watchvery like the one Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had given Ron  for his seventeenth; it was gold, with stars circling around the face instead of  hands.   “It’s traditional to give a wizard a watchwhen he comes of age.” said Mrs.  Weasley, watching him anxiously from beside the corner. “I’m afraid that one  isn’t new like Ron’s,itwas actuallymy brotherFabian’s andhewasn’t terribly  careful with his possessions, it’s a bit dented on the back, but-”   The rest of her speech was lost; Harry had got up and hugged her, He tried  to put a lot of unsaid things into the hug and perhaps she understood them,   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    because she patted his check clumsily when he released her, then waved her  wand in a slightly random way, causing half a packof bacon out of the frying  pan onto the floor.   “Happy birthday, Harry!” said Hermione, hurrying into the kitchen and  adding her own present to the top of the pile. “It’s not much, butI hope you  like it. What did you get him?” she added to Ron, who seemed not to hear her.”   “Come on, then, open Hermione’s! said Ron.   She had bought him a new Sneakoscope. The other packages contained an  enchanted razor from Bill and Fleur. (“Ah yes, zis will give you ze smoothest  shave you will eve ’ave,” Monsieur Delacour assured him, “but you must tell it  clearlywhatyouwant...ozzerwiseyoumightfindyou’avea leetlelesshair  zan you would like....”),chocolates from the Delacours, and an enormous box  of the latestWeasleys’Wizard Wheezes merchandise fromFred and George.   Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not linger at the table, as the arrival of  Madame Delacour,Fleur,and Gabrielle made the kitchen uncomfortably crowded.   “I’ll packthese for you,” Hermione said brightly,taking Harry’s presents out  of his arms as the three of them headed back upstairs. “I’m nearly done, I’m  just waiting for the rest of your underpants to come out of the wash, Ron—”   Ron’s splutter was interrupted by the opening of a door on the first-floor  landing.   “Harry, will you come in here a moment?”   It was Ginny, Ron came to an abrupt halt, but Hermione took him by the  elbow rugged him onup the stairs.Feeling nervous, Harry followed Ginny into  her room.   He had never been insideitbefore. Itwas small, but bright. Therewasa  large poster of the Wizarding band the Weird Sisters on one wall and a picture  of GwenogJones, Captain of the all-witch Quidditch team the Holyhead  Harpies, onthe other.Adesk stood facing the open window, whichlooked out  over the orchard where he and Ginny had once played two-a-side Quidditch  with Ron and Hermione, and whichnow houseda large, pearly white marquee.  The golden flag on top was level with Ginny’s window.   
 Ginny looked up into Harry’s face, took a deep breath, and said, “Happy  seventeenth.”   “Yeah... thanks.”   She was looking at him steadily; he, however, found it difficult to look back  at her; it was like gazing into a brilliant light.   “Nice view,” he said feebly, pointing toward the window.   She ignored this. He could not blame her,   “I couldn’t think what to get you,” she said.   “You didn’t have to get me anything.” She disregarded this too.   “I didn’t know what would be useful. Nothing too big, because you wouldn’t  be able to take it with you.”   He chanced a glance at her. She was not tearful; that was one of the  many wonderful things about Ginny, she was rarely weepy. He had sometimes  thought that having six brother must have toughened her up.   She took a step closer to him.   “So thenIthought,I’dlikeyoutohave somethingto remembermeby,you  know, if you meet some veela when you’re off doing whatever you’re doing.”   “I think dating opportunities are going to be pretty thin on the ground, to  be honest.”   “There’s the silver lining I’ve been looking for,” she whispered, and then she  was kissing him as she had never kissed him before, and Harry was kissing  her back, and it was blissful oblivion better than firewhisky; she was the only  real thing in the world, Ginny, the feel of her, one hand at her backand one in  her long, sweet-smelling hair—   The door banged open behind them and they jumped apart.   “Oh,” said Ron pointedly. “Sorry.”   “Ron!” Hermione was just behind him, slightly out of breath. There was a  strained silence, then Ginny said in a flat little voice,   “Well, happy birthdayanyway, Harry.”   Ron’s ears were scarlet; Hermione looked nervous. Harry wanted to slam  thedoorintheir faces,butitfeltasthoughicold drainhad enteredthe room   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    when the door appeared, and his shining moment had popped like a soap bubble.  All the reasons for ending his relationship with Ginny, for staying well  awayfrom her, seemed to have slunk inside the room with Ron, and all happy  forgetfulness was gone.   HelookedatGinnywantingtosaysomething,thoughhehardlyknewwhat,  but she had turned her back on him. He thought that she might have succumbed,  for once, to tears. He could not do anything to comfort her in front of  Ron.   “I’ll see you later,” he said, and followed the other two out of the bedroom.   Ron marched downstairs, through the still-crowded kitchen and into the  yard, and Harry kept pace with him all the way, Hermione trotting along behind  them looking scared.   Once he reached the seclusion of the freshly mow lawn, Ron rounded on  Harry.   “You ditched her. What are you doing now, messing her around/”   “I’m not messing her around,” said Harry, as Hermione caught up with  them.   “Ron—”   But Ron held up a hand to silence her.   “She was really cut up when you ended it—”   “SowasI.YouknowwhyIstoppedit,anditwasn’t becauseI wantedto.”   “Yeah, but you go snogging her now and she’s just going to get her hopes up  again—”   “She’s not an idiot, she knows it can’t happen, she’s not expecting us to—to  end up married, or—”   “As he said it, a vivid picture formed in Harry’s mind of Ginny in a white  dress, marrying a tall, faceless, and unpleasant stranger.   In one spiraling moment it seemed to hit him: Her future was free and  unencumbered, whereas his ...he could see nothing butVoldemort ahead.   “If you keep groping her every chance you get—”   “It won’t happen again,” said Harry harshly. The day was cloudless, but he   
 felt as though the sun had gone in. “Okay?”   Ron looked half resentful, half sheepish; he rocked backward and forward  onhisfeetfora moment,thensaid,“Rightthen,well,that’s ...yeah.”   Ginny did not seek another one-to-one meeting with Harry for the rest of  the day, nor by any look or gesture did she show that they had shared more  thanpolite conversationinher room. Nevertheless, Charlie’s arrival cameasa  relief to Harry. It provided a distraction, watching Mrs. Weasley force Charlie  into a chair, raise her wand threateningly, and announce that he was about to  get a proper haircut.   As Harry’s birthday dinner would have stretched the Burrow’s kitchen to  breaking point even before the arrival of Charlie, Lupin, Tonks, and Hagrid,  several tables were placed end to end in the garden. Fred and George bewitched  a number of purple lanterns, all emblazoned with a large number 17,  to hang in midair over the guests. Thanks to Mrs. Weasley’s ministrations,  George’s wound was neat and clean, but Harry was not yet used to the dark  hole in the side of his head, despite the twins many jokes about it.   Hermione made purple and gold streamers erupt from the end of her wand  and drape themselves artistically over the trees and bushes.   “Nice,” said Ron, as with one final flourish of her wand, Hermione turned  the leaves on the crabapple tree to gold. “You’ve really got an eye for that sort  of thing.”   “Thank you, Ron!” said Hermione, looking both pleased and a little confused.  Harry turned away, smiling to himself. He had a funny notion that he  would find a chapter on compliments when he found time to peruse his copy of  TwelveFail-Safe ways to CharmWitches; he caught Ginny’s eye and grinned  at her before remembering his promiseto Ron and hurriedly strikingupa conversation  with Monsieur Delacour.   “Out of the way, out of the way!‘ sang Mrs. Weasley, coming through the  gate with what appeared to be a giant, beach-ball-sized Snitchfloating in front  of her. Seconds later Harry realized that it was his birthdaycake, whichMrs.  Weasley was suspending with her wand, rather than risk carrying it over the   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    uneven ground. When the cake had finally landed in the middle of the table,   Harry said,   “That looks amazing, Mrs.Weasley.”   “Oh, it’s nothing, dear.” she said fondly. Over her shoulder, Ron gave Harry  the thumbs-up and mouthed, Good one.   By seven o’clockall the guests had arrived, led into the housebyFred and  George, who had waited for them at the end of the lane. Hagrid had honored  the occasionbywearing his best, and horrible,hairy brow suit. Although Lupin  smiled as he shook Harry’s hand, Harry thought he looked rather unhappy. It  was all very odd;Tonks, beside him, looked simply radiant.   “Happy birthday, Harry,” she said, hugging him tightly.   “Seventeen, eh!” said Hagrid as he accepted a bucket-sized glass of wine  fromFred. “Six years ter the day we met, Harry, d’yeh remember it?”   “Vaguely,” said Harry,grinning up at him. “Didn’t you smash down the front  door, give Dudleya pig’s tail, and tell meI wasa wizard?’   “I forge’ the details,” Hagrid Chortled. “All righ’, Ron, Hermione?”   “We’re fine,” said Hermione. “Who are you?”   “Ar, not bad. Bin busy, we got some newborn unicorns. I’ll show yeh when  yeh get back—” Harry avoided Ron’s and Hermione’s gazes and Hagrid rummaged  in his pocket. “Here, Harry—couldn’ think what ter get yeh, but thenI  remembered this.” He pulled out a small, slightly furry drawstring pouchwith  a long string, evidently intended to be worn around the neck. “Mokeskin. Hide  anythin’ in there an’ no one but the owner can get it out. They’re rare, them.”   “Hagrid, thanks!”   “’S’nothin’,”saidHagridwithawaveofadustbin-lid-sizedhand,“An’there’s  Charlie! always liked him—hey! Charlie!”   Charlie approached, running his hand slightly ruefully over his new, brutally  short haircut. He was shorter than Ron, thickset, with a number of burns  and scratches up his muscly arms.   “Hi, Hagrid, how’s it going?”   “Bin meanin’ ter write fer ages. How’s Norbert doin”’   
 “Norbert?” Charlie laughed. “The Norwegian Ridgeback? We call her Norberta  now.”   “Wha—Norbert’s a girl?”   “Oh yeah,” said Charlie.   “How can you tell?” asked Hermione   “They’re a lot more vicious.” said Charlie. He looked over his shoulder and  dropped his voice. “Wish Dad would hurry up and get here. Mum’s getting  edgy.”   They all looked over at Mrs. Weasley. She was trying to talk to Madame  Delacour while glancing repeatedly at the gate.   “I think we’dbetter start without Arthur,” she called to the garden at large  after a moment or two. “He must have been held up at—oh!”   They all saw it at the same time: a streak of light that came flying across  the yard and onto the table, where it resolved itself into a bright silver weasel,  whichstood on its hind legs and spoke withMr.Weasley’s voice.   “Minister of Magic coming with me.”   ThePatronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleur’s family peering in astonishment  where it had vanished.   “We shouldn’t be here,” said Lupin at once. “Harry—I’m sorry—I’ll explain  another time—”   He seizedTonks’s wrist and pulled heraway; the reached the fence,climbed  over it, and vanished from sight. Mrs.Weasley looked bewildered.   “The Minister—but why—?Idon’t understand—”   But there was no time to discuss the matter; a second later, Mr. Weasley  had appeared out of thin air at the gate, accompanied by Rufus Scrimgeour,  instantly recognizable by his mane of grizzled hair.   the two newcomers marched across the yard toward the garden and the  lantern-littable,where everybodysatin silence,watchingthemdrawcloser.As  Scrimgeour came within range of the lantern light, Harry saw that he looked  mucholder than the last time they had met, scraggy and grim.   “Sorry to intrude,” said Scrimgeour, as he limped to a halt before the table.   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    “Especially asI can see thatI am gate crashinga party.”   His eyes lingered for a moment on the giant Snitchcake.   “Many happy returns.”   “Thanks,” said Harry.   “I require a private word with you,” Scrimgeour went on. “Also with Mr.  RonaldWeasley and Miss Hermione Granger.”   “Us?” said Ron, sounding surprised, “Why us?”   “I shall tell you that when we are somewhere more private,” said Scrimgeour.  “Is there such a place?”he demandedofMr.Weasley.   “Yes, of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked nervous. “The, er, sitting  room, why don’t you use that?”   “You can lead the way,” Scrimgeour said to Ron. “There will be no need for  you to accompany us, Arthur.”   Harry saw Mr. Weasley exchange a worried look with Mrs. Weasley as he,  Ron, and Hermione stood up. As they led the waybackto the house in silence,  Harry knew that the other two were thinking the same as he was: Scrimgeour  must, somehow, have learned that the three of them were planning to drop out  of Hogwarts.   Scrimgeour did not speak as they all passed through the messy kitchen  and into the Burrow’s sitting room. Although the garden had been full of soft  golden evening light, it was already dark in here. Harry flicked his wand at  the oil lamps as he entered and they illuminated the shabby but cozy room.  Scrimgeour sat himself in the sagging armchair that Mr. Weasley normally  occupied, leaving Harry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side by side onto the  sofa. Once they had done so, Scrimgeour spoke,   “Ihave some questions for the threeof your andIthinkit willbe bestif we  do it individually. If you two“—he pointed at Harry and Hermione—” can wait  upstairs,Iwill start with Ronald.”   “We’re not going anywhere,” said Harry, while Hermione nodded vigorously.  “You can speak to us together, or not at all.”   Scrimgeour gave Harry a cold, appraising look. Harry had the impression   
 that the minister was wondering it was worthwhile opening hostilities this  early.   “Very well then, together,” he said, shrugging. He cleared his throat. “I am  here, as I’m sure you know, because of Albus Dumbledore’s will.”   Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another.   “Asurprise, apparently? You were not aware the that Dumbledore had left  you anything?”   “A—all of us?” said Ron. “Me and Hermione too?”   “Yes, all of—”   But Harry interrupted.   “Dumbledore died over a month ago. Why has it taken this long to give us  what he left us?”   “Isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, before Scrimgeour could answer. “They  wantedto examine whateverhe’sleftus.Youhadnorighttodo that!”shesaid,  and her voice trembled slightly.   “I had every right,” said Scrimgeour dismissively. “The Decree forJustifiable  Confiscation gives the Ministry the power to confiscate the contents of a  will—”   “That law was created to stop wizards passing on Dark artifacts,” said  Hermione, “and the Ministry is supposedto have evidence that the deceased’s  possessions are illegal before seizing them! Are you telling me that you thought  Dumbledore was trying to pass us something cursed?”   “Are you planning to follow a career in Magical Law, Miss Granger?” asked  Scrimgeour.   “No,I’mnot,” retortedHermione.“I’mhopingtodosomegoodintheworld!”   Ron laughed, Scrimgeour’s eyes flickered toward him and away again as  Harry spoke.   “So why have you decided to let us have our things now? Can’t you think of  a pretext to keep them?”   “No, it’ll be because the thirty-one days are up,” said Hermione at once.  “They can’t keep the objects longer than that unless they can prove they’re   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    dangerous. Right?”   “Would you sayyou were close to Dumbledore, Ronald?” asked Scrimgeour,  ignoring Hermione. Ron looked startled.   “Me? No—notreally...ItwasalwaysHarrywho... ”   Ron looked around at Harry and Hermione to see Hermione giving him a  stop—talking—now! sortof look, but the damagewas done: Scrimgeour looked  asthoughhehadheardexactlywhathehad expected,andwanted,tohear.He  swooped like a bird of prey upon Ron’s answer.   “If you were not very close to Dumbledore, how do you account for the fact  that he remembered you in his will? He made exceptionally few personal bequests.  The vast majority of his possessions—his private library, his magical  instruments, and other personal effects—were left to Hogwarts. Why do you  think you were singled out?”   “I...dunno,” saidRon,“I...whenI say we weren’tclose...Imean,Ithink  he liked me.... ”   “You’re being modest, Ron,” said Hermione. “Dumbledore was very fond of  you.”   This was stretching the truth to breaking points as far as Harry knew, Ron  and Dumbledore had never been alone together, and direct contact between  them had been negligible. However, Scrimgeour did not seem to be listening.  Heputhishand insidehiscloakanddrewoutadrawstringpouch muchlarger  than the one Hagrid had given Harry. From it, he removed a scroll of parchment  whichhe unrolled and read aloud.   “‘The LastWill andTestamentof AlbusPercivalWulfric Brian Dumbledore’  ...Yes, here we are.... ’To Ronald BiliusWeasley,I leave my Deluminator, in  the hope that he will remember me when he uses it.”’   Scrimgeour took something from the bag an object that Harry had seen  before. It looked something like a silver cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew,  the power to suck all light from a place, and restore it, with a simple click.  Scrimgeour leaned forward and passed the Deluminator to Ron, who took it  and turned it over in his fingers, looking stunned.   
 “That is a valuable object,” said Scrimgeour, watching Ron. “It may even be  unique. Certainly it is of Dumbledore’s ow design. Why would he have left you  an item so rare?”   Ron shook his head, looking bewildered.   “Dumbledore must have taught thousands of students,” Scrimgeour persevered.“ Yettheonlyonehe rememberedinhiswillareyouthree.Whyisthat?  Towhatusedidhethinkyouwouldputhis Deluminator,Mr.Weasley?”   “Put out lights,Is’pose,” mumbled Ron. “What else couldIdo with it?”   Evidently Scrimgeour had no suggestions. After squinting at Ron for a moment  or two, he turned backto Dumbledore’s will.   “‘To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of TheTales of Beedle  the Bard, in the hope that she will find it entertaining and instructive.”’   Scrimgeour now pulled out of the bag a small book that looked as ancient  as the copy of Secrets of the Darkest Arts upstairs. Its binding was stained and  peeling in places. Hermione took it from Scrimgeour without a word. She held  the book in her lap and gazed at it. Harry saw that the title was in runes;  he had never learned to read them. As he looked, a tear splashed onto the  embossed symbols.   “Why do you think Dumbledore left you that book, Miss Granger?” asked  Scrimgeour   “He...heknewIlikedbooks,”said Hermioneinathickvoice,moppingher  eyes with her sleeve.   “But why that particular book?”   “I don’t know. He must have thought I’denjoy it.”   “Did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing secret messages, with  Dumbledore?”   “No,Ididn’t,”said Hermione,stillwipinghereyesonhersleeve.“Andifthe  Ministry still hasn’t found any hidden codes in this book in thirty-one days,I  doubt thatIwill.”   She suppressed a sob. They were wedged together so tightly that Ron had  difficultly extracting his arm to put it around Hermione’s shoulders. Scrim   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    geour turned backto the will.   “’To Harry James Potter,’”he read, and Harry’s insides contracted with a  sudden excitement, ”’I leave the Snitchhe caught in his first Quidditchmatch  at Hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of perseverance and skill.’”   As Scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized golden ball, its silver wings  fluttered rather feebly, and Harry could not help feeling definite sense of anticlimax.    “Why did Dumbledore leave you this Snitch?” asked Scrimgeour.   “No idea,” said Harry. “For the reasons you just read out,I suppose ...to  remindmewhatyoucangetifyou... perseveread whateveritwas.”   “You think this is a mere symbolic keepsake, then?”   “I suppose so,” said Harry. “What else could it be?”   “I’m asking the questions,” said Scrimgeour, shifting his chair a little closer  to the sofa. Dusk was really falling outside now; the marquee beyond the windows  towered ghostly white over the hedge.   “I notice that your birthday cake is in the shape of a Snitch,” Scrimgeour  said to Harry. “Why is that?”   Hermione laughed derisively.   “Oh, it can’t be a reference to the fact that Harry’s a great Seeker, that’s  waytoo obvious,” she said. “There must be a secret message from Dumbledore  hidden in the icing!”   “I don’t think there’s anything hidden in the icing,” said Scrimgeour, “but a  Snitchwouldbeaverygoodhidingplacefora small object.Youknowwhy,I’m  sure?”   Harry shrugged. Hermione, however, answered: Harry though that answering  questions correctly was such a deeply ingrained habit she could not  suppress the urge.   “Because Snitches have flesh memories,” she said.   “What?” said Harry and Ron together; both considered Hermione’s Quidditchknowledge  negligible.   “Correct,” said Scrimgeour. “ASnitchis not touchedby bare skin beforeitis   
 released, not even by the maker, who wears gloves. It carries an enchantment  by which it can identify the first human to lay hands upon it, in the case of  disputed capture. This Snitch”—he held up the tiny golden ball—“will remember  your touch,Potter. It occurs to me that Dumbledore, who had prodigious  magical skill, whatever his other faults, might have enchanted this Snitch so  that it will open only for you.”   Harry’s heart was beating rather fast. He was sure that Scrimgeour was  right. How could he avoid taking the Snitchwith his bare hand in front of the  Minister?   “You don’t sayanything,” said Scrimgeour. “Perhaps you already know what  the Snitchcontains?”   “No,” said Harry, still wondering how he could appear to touch the Snitch  without really doing so. If only he knew Legilimency, really knew it, and could  read Hermione’smind; he could practically hear her brain whirring beside him.   “Take it,” said Scrimgeour quietly.   Harry met the minister’s yellow eyes and knew he had no option but to  obey. He held out his hand, and Scrimgeour leaned forward again and placed  the Snitch, slowly and deliberately, into Harry’s palm. Nothing happened. As  Harry’s fingers closed around the Snitch, its tired wings fluttered and were  still. Scrimgeour, Ron, and Hermione continued to gaze avidly at the now partially  concealed ball, as if still hoping it might transform in some way.   “That was dramatic,” said Harry coolly. Both Ron and Hermione laughed.   “That’s all, then, is it?” asked Hermione, making to prise herself off the  sofa.   “Not quite,” said Scrimgeour, who looked bad tempered now, “Dumbledore  left youa second bequest,Potter.”   “What is it?” asked Harry, excitement rekindling.   Scrimgeour did not bother to read from the will this time.   “The sword of Godric Gryffindor,” he said.   Hermione and Ron both stiffened. Harry looked around for a sign of the  ruby-encrusted hilt, but Scrimgeour did not pull the sword from the leather   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    pouch, whichin any case looked muchtoo small to contain it.   “So where is it?” Harry asked suspiciously.   “Unfortunately,” said Scrimgeour, “that swordwas not Dumbledore’s to give  away. The sword of Godric Gryffindor is an important historical artifact, and  as such, belongs—”   “It belongs to Harry!” said Hermione hotly. “It chose him, he was the one  who found it, it came to him out of the Sorting Hat—”   “According to reliable historical sources, the sword may present itself to  any worthy Gryffindor,” said Scrimgeour. “That does not make it the exclusive  property of Mr. Potter, whatever Dumbledore mayhave decided.” Scrimgeour  scratched his badly shaven cheek, scrutinizing Harry. “Why do you think—?”   “—Dumbledore wanted to give me the sword?” said Harry, struggling to  keep his temper. “Maybe he thought it would look nice on my wall.”   “This is not a joke, Potter!” growled Scrimgeour. “Was it because Dumbledore  believed that only the sword of Godric Gryffindor could defeat the Heir  of Slytherin? Did he wish to give you that sword,Potter, because he believed,  as do many, that you are the one destined to destroy He-Who-Must-Not-Be- Named?”   “Interesting theory,” said Harry. “Has anyone ever tried sticking a sword  inVoldemort? Maybe the Ministry should put some people onto that, instead  of wasting their time stripping down Deluminators or covering up breakouts  from Azkaban. So this is what you’ve been doing, Minister, shut up in your  office, trying to break open a Snitch? People are dying—I was nearly one of  them—Voldemort chased me across three countries, he killed Mad-Eye Moody,  but there’s been no word about any of that from the Ministry, has there? And  you still expect us to cooperate with you!”   “You go too far!” shouted Scrimgeour, standing up; Harry jumped to his feet  too. Scrimgeour limped toward Harry and jabbed him hard in the chest with  thepointofhiswand:ItsingedaholeinHarry’sT-shirtlikealit cigarette.   “Oi!” said Ron, jumping up and raising his own wand, but Harry said,   “No! D’you want to give him an excuse to arrest us?”   
 115   “Remembered you’re not at school, have you?” said Scrimgeour, breathing  hard into Harry’s face. “Remembered thatI am not Dumbledore, who forgave  your insolence and insubordination? You may wear that scar like a crown,  Potter, but it is not up to a seventeen-year-old boy to tell me how to do my job!  It’s time you learned some respect!”   “It’s time you earned it.” said Harry.   Thefloor trembled;therewasasoundofrunningfootsteps,thenthedoorto  the sitting room burst open andMr. and Mrs.Weasley ran in.   “We—we thoughtwe heard—”beganMr.Weasley,looking thoroughly alarmed  at the sight of Harry and the Minister virtually nose to nose.   “—raised voices,” panted Mrs.Weasley.   Scrimgeour took a couple of steps backfrom Harry, glancing at the hole he  hadmadeinHarry’sT-shirt.He seemedtoregrethislossoftemper.   “It—itwasnothing,”hegrowled.“I...regretyour attitude,”hesaid,looking  Harry full in the face once more. “You seem to think that the Ministry does  not desire what you—what Dumbledore—desired. We ought to be working together.”    “I don’t like your methods, Minister,” said Harry. “Remember?”   For the second time, he raised his right fist and displayed to Scrimgeour  the scars that still showed white on the backof it, spelling Imust not tell lies.  Scrimgeour’s expression hardened. He turned awaywithout another word and  limped from the room. Mrs. Weasley hurried after him; Harry heard her stop  at the backdoor. After a minute or so she called, “He’s gone!”   “Whatdidhewant?”Mr.Weasley asked, looking aroundatHarry,Ron,and  Hermione as Mrs.Weasley came hurrying backto them.   “To give us what Dumbledore left us,” said Harry. “They’ve only just released  the contents of his will.”   Outside in the garden, over the dinner tables, the three objects Scrimgeour  had given them were passed from hand to hand. Everyone exclaimed over  the Deluminator and TheTales of Beedle the Bardand lamented the fact that  Scrimgeour had refused to pass on the sword, but none of them could offer any   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    suggestion as to why Dumbledore would have left Harry an old Snitch. As Mr.  Weasley examined the Deluminator for the third or fourth time, Mrs.Weasley  said tentatively, “Harry, dear, everyone’s awfully hungry, we didn’t like to start  without you.... ShallI serve dinner now?”   They all ate rather hurriedly and then, after a hasty chorus of “Happy  Birthday” and much gulping of cake, the party broke up. Hagrid, who was  invited to the wedding the following day, but was far too bulky to sleep in the  overstretched Burrow, left to set up a tent for himself in a neighboring field.   “Meet us upstairs,” Harry whispered to Hermione, while they helped Mrs.  Weasley restore the garden to its normal state. “After everyone’s gone to bed.”   Up in the attic room, Ron examined his Deluminator, and Harry filled Hagrid’s  mokeskin purse, not with gold, but with those items he most prized, apparently  worthless though some of them were: the Marauder’s Map, the shard  of Sirius’s enchanted mirror, and R.A.B.’s locket. He pulled the strings tight  and slipped the purse around his neck, then sat holding the old Snitch and  watching its wings flutter feebly. At last, Hermione tapped on the door and  tiptoed inside.   “Muffliato,” she whispered, waving her hand in the direction of the stairs.   “Thought you didn’t approve of that spell?” said Ron.   “Times change,” said Hermione. “Now, show us that Deluminator.”   Ronobligedatonce. Holdingitupinfrontofhim,heclickedit.Thesolitary  lamp they had lit went out at once.   “The thing is,” whispered Hermione through the dark, “we could have achieved  that withPeruvian Instant DarknessPowder.”   There was a small click, and the ball of light from the lamp flew backto the  ceiling and illuminated them all once more.   “Still, it’s cool,” said Ron, a little defensively. “And from what they said,  Dumbledore invented it himself!”   “I know, but surely he wouldn’t have singled you out in his will just to help  us turn out the lights!”   “D’you think he knew the Ministry would confiscate his will and examine   
 everything he’dleft us?” asked Harry.   “Definitely,” said Hermione. “He couldn’t tell us in the will why he was  leavingusthesethings,butthatstill doesn’texplain... ”   “...whyhe couldn’thave given usa hint whenhewas alive?” asked Ron.   “Well, exactly,” said Hermione, now flicking through the TheTalesof Beedle  the Bard. “If thesethings are important enough to pass on right under the nose  of the Ministry, you’dthink he’dhave let us know why ... unless he thought it  was obvious?”   “Thought wrong, then, didn’t he?” said Ron. “I always said he was mental.  Brilliant and everything, but cracked. Leaving Harry an old Snitch—what the  hell was that about?”   “I’ve no idea,” said Hermione. “When Scrimgeour made you take it, Harry,  Iwas so sure that something was going to happen!”   “Yeah, well,” said Harry, his pulse quickening as he raised the Snitchin his  fingers. “I wasn’t going to try too hard in front of Scrimgeour, was I?”   “What do you mean?” asked Hermione.   “The SnitchIcaughtinmy first ever Quidditchmatch?” said Harry. “Don’t  you remember?”   Hermione looked simply bemused. Ron, however, gasped, pointing frantically  from Harry to the Snitchand backagain until he found his voice.   “That was the one you nearly swallowed!”   “Exactly,” said Harry, and with his heart beating fast, he pressed his mouth  to the Snitch.   It did not open. Frustration and bitter disappointment welled up inside  him: He lowered the golden sphere, but then Hermione cried out.   “Writing! There’s writing on it, quick, look!”   He nearly dropped the Snitch in surprise and excitement. Hermione was  quite right. Engraved upon the smooth golden surface, where seconds before  there had been nothing, were five words written in the thin, slanting handwriting  that Harry recognized as Dumbledore’s:   Iopen at the close.   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    He had barely read them when the words vanished again.   “‘Iopenattheclose... ’ What’sthat supposedto mean?”   Hermione and Ron shook their heads, looking back.   “I openattheclose...atthe close ...Iopenattheclose... ”   But no matter how often they repeated the words, with many different inflections,  they were unable to wring any more meaning from them.   “And the sword,” said Ron finally, when they had at last abandoned their  attemptstodivinemeaningintheSnitch’sinscription.“WhydidhewantHarry  to have the sword?”   “And why couldn’t he just have told me?” Harry said quietly. “I was there  it was right there on the wall of his office during all our talks last year! If he  wanted me to have it, why didn’t he just give it to me then?   He felt as though he were sitting in an examination with a question he  ought to have been able to answer in front of him, his brain slow and unresponsive.  Was there something he had missed in the long talks with Dumbledore  last year? Ought he to know what it all meant? Had Dumbledore expected him  to understand?   “And as for this book” said Hermione, “TheTales of Beedle the Bard... I’ve  never even heard of them.”   “You’ve never heard of The Tales of Beedle the Bard?” said Ron incredulously.  “You’re kidding, right?”   “No, I’m not.” said Hermione in surprise. “Do you know them, then?”   “Well,of courseIdo!”   Harrylookedup,diverted.The circumstanceofRonhavingreadabookthat  Hermione had not was unprecedented. Ron, however, looked bemused by their  surprise.   “Oh come on! All the old kids’ stories are supposed to be Beedle’s, aren’t  they? ‘TheFountainofFairFortune’ ...‘TheWizard and the HoppingPot’  ...‘Babbitty RabbittyandherCacklingStump’... ”   “Excuse me?” said Hermione, giggling. “What was that last one?”   “Come off it!” said Ron, looking in disbelief from Harry to Hermione. “You   
 must’ve heard of Bubbitty Rabbitty—”   “Ron, you know full well Harry andI were broughtupby Muggles!” said  Hermione. “We didn’t hear stories like that when we were little, we heard  ‘Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs’ and ‘Cinderella’—”   “What’s that, an illness?” asked Ron.   “So these are children’s stories?” asked Hermione, bending again over the  runes.   “Yeah,” said Ron uncertainly, “I mean, that’s just what you hear, you know,  that all these old stories came from Beedle. I dunno what they’re like in the  original versions.   “butIwonder why Dumbledore thoughtIshould read them?”   Something creaked downstairs.   “Probably just Charlie, now Mum’s asleep, sneaking off to regrow his hair,”  said Ron nervously.   “All the same, we should get to bed,” whispered Hermione. “It wouldn’t do  to oversleep tomorrow.’   “No,” agreed Ron. “Abrutal triple murderbythe bridegroom’smother might  put a bit of a damper of the wedding. I’ll get the lights.”   And he clicked the Deluminator once more as Hermione left the room.   
 CHAPTER  7.  THE  WILL  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    
 Chapter  8    The  Wedding    T T hree o’clock on the following afternoon found Harry, Ron,Fred, and  George standing outside the great white marquee in the orchard,  awaiting the arrival of the wedding guests. Harry had taken a  large doseofPolyjuicePotion andwas now the doubleofa redheaded Muggle  boy from the local village, Ottery St. Catchpole, from whomFred had stolen  hairs using a Summoning Charm. The plan was to introduce Harry as “Cousin  Barny”and trusttothegreat numberofWeasley relativesto camouflagehim.   All four of them were clutching seating plans, so that they could help show  people to the right seats. A host of white-robed waiters had arrived an hour  earlier, along with a golden jacketed band, and all of these wizards were currently  sitting a short distance awayunder a tree. Harry could see a blue haze  of pipe smoke issuing from the spot. Behind Harry, the entrance to the marquee  revealed rows and rows of fragile golden hairs set on either side of a long  purple carpet.   The supporting poles are entwined with white and gold flowers. Fred and  George had fastened an enormous bunchof golden balloons over the exact point  where Bill and Fleur would shortly become husband and wife. Outside, butterflies  and bees were hovering lazily over the grass and hedgerow. Harry was  rather uncomfortable. The Muggleboy whoseappearancehewas affectingwas   121   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    slightly fatter than him, and his dress robes felt hot and tight in the full glare  of a summer’s day.   “WhenI get married,” saidFred, tugging at the collar of his own robes, “I  won’t be bothering with any of this nonsense. You can all wear what you like,  and I’ll put a full Body Bind Curse on Mum until it’s all over.”   “She wasn’t too bad this morning, considering,” said George. “Cried a bit  aboutPercy not being here, but whowants him? Oh blimey, brace yourselves—  here they come, look.”   Brightly colored figures were appearing, one by one, out of nowhere at the  distant boundary of the yard. Within minutes a procession had formed, which  began to snake its way up through the garden toward the marquee. Exotic  flowers and bewitched birds fluttered on the witches’ hats, while precious gems  glitteredfrommanofthe wizards’cravats;ahumof excitedchattergrewlouder  and louder, drowning the sound of the bees as the crowd approached the tent.   “Excellent,IthinkI seea few veela cousins,” said George, craning his neck  for a better look. “They’ll need help understanding our English customs, I’ll  look after them.... ”   “Not so fast, Your Holeyness,” said Fred, and darting past the gaggle of  middle-aged witches heading the procession, he said, “Here—permettez-moi to  assiter vous,”toapairof prettyFrenchgirls,who giggledand allowedhimto  escort them inside. George was left to deal with the middle-aged witches and  RontookchargeofMr.Weasley’sold Ministry colleaguePerkins,whilea rather  deaf old couple fell to Harry’s lot.   “Wotcher,” said a familiar voice as he came out of the marquee again and  foundTonksandLupinatthefrontofthequeue.Shehad turned blondeforthe  occasion. “Arthur told us you were the one with the curly hair. Sorry about last  night,” she added in a whisper as Harry led them up the aisle. “The Ministry’s  being very anti-werewolf at the moment and we thought our presence might  not do you any favors.”   “It’s fine,I understand.” said Harry, speaking more to Lupin thanTonks.  Lupin gave him a swift smile, but as they turned away, Harry saw Lupin’s face   
 fall again into lines of misery. He did not understand it, but there was no time  to dwell on the matter: Hagrid was causing a certain amount of disruption.  Having misunderstoodFred’s directionshe had sat himself, not upon the magically  enlarged and reinforced seat set aside for him in the backrow, but on five  seats that now resembled a large pile of golden matchsticks.   While Mr. Weasley repaired the damage and Hagrid shouted apologies to  anybody who would listen, Harry hurried back to the entrance to find Ron  face-to-face with a most eccentric-looking wizard. Slightly cross-eyed, with  shoulder-length white hair the texture of candyfloss, he wore a cap whose tassel  dangled in front of his nose and robes of an eye-watering shade of egg-yolk  yellow. An odd symbol, rather like a triangular eye, glistened from a golden  chain around his neck.   “Xenophilius Lovegood,” he said, extending a hand to Harry, “my daughter  andIlivejust overthehill,sokindofthegoodWeasleysto inviteus. butI  think you know my Luna?” he added to Ron.   “Yes,” said Ron. “Isn’t she with you?”   “She lingered in that charming little garden to say hello to the gnomes,  such a glorious infestation! How few wizards realize just how much we can  learn from the wise little gnomes—or, to give them their correct name, the  Gernumbli gardensi.”   “Oursdo knowa lotof excellent swear words,” said Ron, “butIthinkFred  and George taught them those.”   He led a party of warlocks into the marquee as Luna rushed up.   “Hello, Harry!” she said.   “Er—my name’s Barny,” said Harry, flummoxed.   “Oh, have you changed that too?” she asked brightly.   “How did you know—?”   “Oh, just your expression,” she said.   Like her father, Luna was wearing bright yellow robes, which she had accessorized  with a large sunflower in her hair. Once you got over the brightness  ofitall,the general effectwasquite pleasant.At leastthere wereno radishes   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    dangling from her ears.   Xenophilius,whowasdeepin conversationwithan acquaintance,had missed  the exchange between Luna and Harry. Bidding the wizards farewell, he turned  to his daughter, who held up her finger and said, “Daddy, look—one of the  gnomes actually hit me!”   “How wonderful! Gnome saliva is enormously beneficial!” said Mr. Love- good, seizing Luna’s outstretched finger and examining the bleeding puncture  marks. “Luna, my love, if you should feel any burgeoning talent today—  perhaps an unexpected urge to sing opera or to declaim in Mermish—do not  repress it!You mayhave been giftedby the Gernumblies!”   Ron, passing them in the opposite direction, let out a loud snort.   “Ron can laugh,” said Luna serenely as Harry led her and Xenophilius towardtheirseats,“ bumyfatherhasdonealotof researchon Gernumblimagic.”   “Really?” said Harry, who had long since decided not to challenge Luna or  her father’s peculiar views. “Are you sure you don’t want to put anything on  that bite, though?”   “Oh,it’sfine,”saidLuna,suckingherfingerinadreamy fashionandlooking  Harryupanddown.“Youlook smart.ItoldDaddymostpeoplewouldprobably  wear dress robes, but he believes you ought to wear sun colors to a wedding,  for luck, you know.”   As she drifted off after her father, Ron reappeared with an elderly witch  clutching her arm. Her beaky nose, red-trimmed eyes, and feathery pink hat  gave her the look of a bad-tempered flamingo.   “...and you hair’s muchtoo long, Ronald, fora momentIthought you were  Ginevra. Merlin’s beard, what is Xenophilius Lovegood wearing? He looks like  an omelet. And who are you?” she barked at Harry.   “Oh yeah, Auntie Muriel, this is our cousin Barny.”   “AnotherWeasley?You breed like gnomes. Isn’t HarryPotter here?I was  hoping to meet him. I thought he was a friend of yours, Ronald, or have you  merely been boasting?”   “No—he couldn’t come—”   
 “Hmm. Made an excuse, did he? Not as gormless as he looks in press  photographs, then. I’ve just been instructing the bride on how best to wear my  tiara.” she shouted at Harry. “Goblin-made, you know, and been in my family  for centuries. She’s a good-looking girl, but still—French.Well, well, find me a  goodseat, Ronald,I ama hundredand sevenandIoughtnottobeonmyfeet  too long.”   Ron gave Harry a meaningful look as he passed and did not reappear for  some time. When next they met at the entrance, Harry had shown a dozen  more people to their places. The marquee was nearly full now, and for the first  time there was no queue outside.   “Nightmare, Muriel is,” said Ron, mopping his forehead on his sleeve. “She  used to come for Christmas every year, then, thank God, she took offense because  Fred and George set off a Dungbomb under her chair at dinner. Dad  always says she’ll have written them out of her will—like they care, they’re goingtoendupricherthan  anyoneinthefamily,rate they’regoing....Wow,”he  added, blinking rather rapidly as Hermione came hurrying toward them. “You  look great!”   “Always the tone of surprise,” said Hermione, though she smiled. She was  wearing a floaty, lilac=colored dress with matching high heels; her hair was  sleek and shiny. “Your Great—Aunt Muriel doesn’t agree, I just met her upstairs  while she was giving Fleur the tiara. She says, ‘Oh dear, is this the  Muggle-born?’ and then, ‘Bad posture and skinny ankles.”’   “Don’t take it personally, she’s rude to everyone,” said Ron.   “Talking about Muriel?” inquired George, reemerging from the marquee  withFred. “Yeah, she’ just told memy ears are lopsided. Old bat.Iwish old  Uncle Bilius was still with us, though; he was a right laugh at weddings.”   “Wasn’t he the one who saw a Grim and died twenty-four hours later?”  asked Hermione.   “Well, yeah, he went a bit odd toward the end,” conceded George.   “But beforehe went loopyhewasthe lifeandsoulofthe party.” saidFred.  “He used to down an entire bottle of firewhisky, then run onto the dance floor,   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    hoist up his robes, and start pulling bunches of flowers out of his—”   “Yes, he sounds a real charmer,” said Hermione, while Harry roared with  laughter.   “Never married, for some reason,” said Ron.   “You amaze me,” said Hermione.   They were all laughing so much that none of them noticed the latecomer,  a dark-haired young man with a large, curved nose and thickblackeyebrows,  until he held out his invitation to Ron and said, with his eyes on Hermione,  “You look vunderful.”   “Viktor!” she shrieked, and dropped her small beaded bag, which made a  loud thump quite disproportionate with its size. As she scrambled, blushing, to  pickit up, she said, “I didn’t know you were—goodness—it’s lovely to see—how  are you again?”   Ron’s ears had turned bright red again. After glancing at Krum’s invitation  as if he did not believe a word of it, he said, muchtoo loudly, “How come you’re  here?”   “Fleur invited me,” said Krum, eyebrows raised.   Harry, who had no grudge against Krum, shook hands; then, feeling that it  would be prudent to remove Krum from Ron’s vicinity, offered to show him his  seat.   “You friend is not pleased to see me,” said Krum as he entered the now  packed marquee. “Or is he a relative?” he added with a glance at Harry’s red  curly hair.   “Cousin,” Harry muttered, but Krum was not really listening. His appearance  was causing a stir, particularly amongst the veela cousins: He was, after  all, a famous Quidditchplayer. While people were still craning their necks to  getagood lookathim,Ron, Hermione,Fred,and George came hurrying down  the aisle.   “Timetositdown,”FredtoldHarry,“orwe’regoingtogetrun overbythe  bride.”   Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their seats in the second row behindFred   
 and George. Hermione looked rather pink and Ron’s ears were still scarlet.  After a few moments he muttered to Harry, “Did you see he’s grown a stupid  little beard?”   Harry gave a noncommittal grunt.   A sense of jittery anticipation had filled the warm tent, the general murmuring  brokenby occasional spurtsof excited laughter.Mr.andMrs.Weasley  strolledupthe aisle, smilingandwavingat relatives:Mrs.Weasleywas wearing  a brand-new set of amethyst-colored robes with a matching hat.   Amoment later Bill and Charlie stood up at the front of the marquee, both  wearing dress robes, with large white roses in their buttonholes; Fred wolf- whistled and there was an outbreak of giggling from the veela cousins. Then  the crowd fell silent as music swelled from what seemed to be the golden balloons.    “Ooooh!” said Hermione, swivelling around in her seat to look at the entrance.    A great collective sigh issued from the assembled witches and wizards as  Monsieur Delacour and Fleur came walking up the aisle, Fleur gliding, Monsieur  Delacour bouncing and beaming. Fleur was wearing a very simple white  dresses and seemed to be emitting a strong, silvery glow. While her radiance  usually dimmed everyone else by comparison, today it beautified everyone it  fell upon. Ginny and Gabrielle, both wearing golden dresses, looked even prettier  than usual, and once Fleur had reached him, Bill did not as though he had  ever metFenrir Greyback.   “Ladies and gentlemen,” said a slightly singsong voice, and with a slight  shock, Harry saw the same small, tufty-haired wizard who had presided at  Dumbledore’sfuneral, now standing in front of bill and Fleur. “Weare gathered  heretodayto celebratethe unionoftwo faithful souls... ”   “Yes,mytiarasetsoffthewholethingnicely,”said auntie Murielina rather  carrying whisper. “ButImust say, Ginevra’s dressis far too low cut.”   Ginny glanced around, grinning, winked at Harry, then quickly faced the  front again. Harry’s mind wandered a long way from the marquee, back to   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    afternoons spent alone with Ginny in lonely parts of the school grounds. they  seemed so long ago; they had always seemed too good to be true, as though he  had been stealing shining hours from a normal person’s life, a person without  a lightning-shaped scar on his forehead....   “Do you,William Arthur, take Fleur Isabelle.... ?”   In the front row, Mrs. Weasley and Madame Delacour were both sobbing  quietly into scraps of lace. Trumpetlike sounds from the backof the marquee  told everyone that Hagrid had taken out one of his own tablecloth=sized handkerchiefs.  Hermione turned and beamed at Harry; her eyes too were full of  tears.   “ ... thenIdeclare you bonded for life.”   The tufty-haired wizard waved his wand high over the heads of Bill and  Fleur and a shower of silver stars fell upon them, spiraling around their now  entwined figures.AsFredand Georgeleda roundof applause,the golden balloons  overhead burst: Birds of paradise and tiny golden bells flew and floated  out of them, adding their songs and chimes to the din.   “Ladies and gentlemen!” called the tuft-haired wizard. “If you would please  stand up!”   Theyalldidso,Auntie Muriel grumbling audibly;hewavedhiswand again.  The seats on which they had been sitting rose gracefully into the air as the  canvas walls of the marquee vanished, so that they stood beneath a canopy  supported by golden poles, with a glorious view of the sunlit orchard and surrounding  countryside. Next, a pool of molten gold spread from the center of  the tent to form a gleaming dance floor; the hovering chairs groped themselves  around small white-clothed tables, which all floated gracefully back to earth  around it, and the golden-jacketed hand trooped toward a podium.   “Smooth,” said Ron approvingly as the waiters popped up on all sides, some  bearing silver trays of pumpkin juice, butterbeer, and firewhisky, other tottering  piles of tarts and sandwiches.   “Weshould go and congratulate them!” said Hermione,standing on tiptoe to  see the place where bill and Fleur had vanished amid a crowd of well-wishers.   
 “We’ll have time later,” shrugged Ron, snatching three butterbeers from a  passing trayand handing one to Harry. “Hermione, cop hold, let’s grab a table....  Not there! Nowhere near Muriel—”   Ron led the way across the empty dance floor, glancing left and right as  he went: Harry felt sure that he was keeping an eye out for Krum. By the  time they had reached the other side of the Marquee, most of the tables were  occupied: The emptiest was the one where Luna sat alone.   “All right if we join you?” asked Ron.   “Oh yes,” she said happily. “Daddy’s just gone to give Bill and Fleur our  present.”   “What is it, a lifetime’s supply of Gurdyroots?” asked Ron.   Hermione aimed a kick at him under the table, but caught Harry instead.  Eyes watering in pain, Harry lost trackof the conversation for a few moments.   The band had begun to play. Bill and Fleur took to the dance floor first, to  great applause; aftera while,Mr.Weasleyled Madame Delacour ontothe floor,  followedby Mrs.Weasley and Fleur’s father.   “I like this song,” said Luna, swaying in time to the waltzlike tune, and  a few seconds later she stood up and glided onto the dance floor, where she  revolved on the spot, quit alone, eyes closed and waving her arms.   “She’s great, isn’t she?” said Ron admiringly. “Always good value.”   But the smile vanished from his face at once: Viktor Krum had dropped  into Luna’s vacant seat. Hermione looked pleasurably flustered, but this time  Krumhadnotcometo complimenther.Withascowlonhisfacehesaid,“Who  is that man in the yellow?”   “That’s Xenophilius Lovegood, he’s the father of a friend of ours,” said Ron.  His pugnacious tone indicated that they were not about to laugh at Xenophilius,  despitetheclear provocation. “Comeand dance,”he added abruptlyto Hermione.   She looked taken aback, but pleased too, and got up. They vanished together  into the growing throng on the dance floor.   “Ah, they are together now?” asked Krum, momentarily distracted.   “Er—sort of,” said Harry.   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    “Who are you?” Krum asked.   “BarnyWeasley.”   They shook hands.   “You, Barny—you know this man Lovegood vell?”   “No,Ionly met him today. Why?”   Krum glowered over the top of his drink, watching Xenophilius, who was  chatting to several warlocks on the other side of the dance floor.   “Because,” said Krum, “if he was not a guest of Fleur’s, I would duel him  here and now, for vearing that filthy sign upon his chest.”   “Sign?” said Harry, looking at Xenophilius too. The strange triangular eye  was gleaming on his chest. “Why? What’s wrong with it?”   “Grindelvald. That is Grindelvald’s sign.”   “Grindelwald...the Dark wizard Dumbledore defeated?”   “Exactly.”   Krum’s jaw muscles worked as if he were chewing, then he says, “Grindelvald  killed many people my grandfather, for instance. Of course, he vos never  poverful in this country, they said he feared Dumbledore—and rightly, seeing  how he vos finished. But this”—he pointed a finger a Xenophilius—“this is his  symbol, recognizeditat vunce: Grindelvald carvedit intoa vallat Durmstrang  ver he vos a pupil there. Some idiots copied it into their books and clothes,  thinking to shock, make themselves impressive—until those of us who had lost  family members to Grindelvald taught them better.”   Krum cracked his knuckles menacingly and glowered at Xenophilius. Harry  felt perplexed. It seemed incredibly unlikely that Luna’sfatherwasasupporter  of the Dark Arts, and nobody else in the tent seemed to have recognized the  triangular, runelike shape.   “Are you—er—quite sure it’s Grindelwald’s—?”   “I am not mistaken,” said Krum coldly. “I valked past that sign for several  years,Iknowit vell.”   “Well, there’sachance,” said Harry,“that Xenophilius doesn’t actually know  what the symbol means. The Lovegoods are quite ... unusual. He could easily   
 have picked it up somewhere and think it’s a cross section of the head of a   Crumple-Horned Snorkack or something.”   “The cross section of a vot?”   “Well,I don’t know what they are, but apparently he and his daughter go  on holidaylooking for them.... ”   Harry felt he was doing a bad job explaining Luna and her father.   “That’s her,” he said, pointing at Luna, who was still dancing alone, waving  her arms around her head like someone attempting to beat off midges.   “Vy is she doing that?” asked Krum.   “ProbablytryingtogetridofaWrackspurt,”saidHarry,who recognizedthe  symptoms.   Krum didnot seem to know whether or not Harry was making fun of him.  He drew his wand from inside his robes and tapped it menacingly on his thigh;  sparks flew out of the end.   “Gregorovitch!” said Harry loudly, and Krum started, but Harry was too  excited to care; the memory came back to him at the sight of Krum’s wand:  Ollivander taking it and examining it carefully before the TriwizardTournament.    “Vot about him?” asked Krum suspiciously.   “He’s a wandmaker!”   “I know that,” said Krum.   “He made yourwand! That’swhyIthought—Quidditch—”   Krum was looking more and more suspicious.   “How do you know Gregorovitchmade my vand?”   “I ...Iread it somewhere,Ithink,” said Harry. “In a—a fan magazine,” he  improvised wildly and Krum looked mollified.   “I had not realizedI ever discussedmy vand with fans,”he said.   “So...er...whereis Gregorovitchthesedays?”   Krum looked puzzled.   “He retired several years ago. I vos one of the last to purchase a Gregorovitchvand. Theyarethe best—althoughIknow,of course,thatyou Britons   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    set muchstore by Ollivander.”   Harry did not answer. He pretended to watchthe dancers, like Krum, but  hewas thinking hard. SoVoldemortwaslooking fora celebratedwandmaker,  and Harry did not have to search far for a reason: It was surely because of  what Harry’s wand had done on the night that Voldemort had pursued him  across the skies. the holly and phoenix feather had conquered the borrowed  wand, something that Ollivander had not anticipated or understood. Would  Gregorovitchknow better? Was he truly more skilled than Ollivander, did he  know secrets of wands that Ollivander did not?   “This girl is very nice-looking,” Krum said, recalling Harry to his surroundings.  Krum was pointing at Ginny, who had just joined Luna. “She is also a  relative of yours?”   “Yeah,” said Harry, suddenly irritated, “and she’s seeing someone. Jealous  type.Big bloke.You wouldn’twantto cross him.”   Krum grunted.   “Vot,” he said, draining his goblet and getting to his feet again, “is the  point of being an international Quidditch player if all the good-looking girls  are taken?”   And he strode off, leaving Harry to take a sandwichfrom a passing waiter  and make his wayaround the edge of the crowded dance floor. He wanted to  find Ron, to tell him about Gregorovitch, but he was dancing with Hermione  out in the middle of the floor. Harry leaned up against one of the golden pillars  andwatched Ginny, whowas now dancing withFred and George’s friend Lee  Jordan, trying not to feel resentful about the promise he had given Ron.   Hehad neverbeentoaweddingbefore,sohecouldnotjudgehowWizarding  celebrations differed from Muggle ones, thoughhewas pretty sure that the  latter would not involve a wedding cake topped with two model phoenixes that  took flight when the cake was cut, or bottles of champagne that floated unsupported  through the crowd. As the evening drew in, and moths began to swoop  under the canopy, now lit with floating golden lanterns, the revelry became  more and more uncontained. Freda and George had long since disappeared   
 into the darkness with a pair of Fleur’s cousins; Charlie, Hagrid, and a squat  wizard in a purple porkpie hat were singing ‘Odo the Hero” in a corner.   Wandering through the crowd so as not to escape a drunken uncle of Ron’s  who seemed unsure whether or not Harry was his son, Harry spotted an old  wizard sitting alone at a table. His cloud of white hair made him look rather  like an aged dandelionclockaswas toppedbyamoth-eaten fez. Hewas vaguely  familiar: Racking his brains, Harry suddenly realized that this was Elphias  Doge, the member of the Order of the Phoenix and the writer of Dumbledore’  obituary.   Harry approached him.   “MayIsit down?”   “Of course, of course,” said Doge; he had a rather high-pitched, wheezy  voice.   Harry leaned in.   “Mr. Doge, I’m HarryPotter.”   Doge gasped.   “My dear boy! Arthur told me you were here, disguised....I am so glad, so  honored!”   In a flutter a nervous pleasure Doge poured Harry a goblet of champagne.   “I’ve thought o writing to you,” he whispered, “after Dumbledore ...the  shock ...andforyou,I am sure... ”   Doge’s tiny eyes filled with sudden tears.   “I saw the obituary you wrote for the DailyProphet,” said Harry. “I didn’t  realize you knew Professor Dumbledore so well.”   “As well as anyone,” said Doge, dabbing his eyes with a napkin. “Certainly  Iknew him longest, if you don’t count Aberforth—and somehow, people never  do seem to count Aberforth.”   “Speaking of the DailyProphet ...Idon’tknow whetheryousaw,Mr.Doge—  ?”   “Oh, please call me Elphias, dear boy.”   “Elphias, I don’t know whether you saw the interview Rita Skeeter gave   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    about Dumbledore?”   Doge’s face flooded with angry color.   “Ohyes,Harry,I sawit. That woman,or vulturemightbea more accurate  term, positively pesteredmetotalktoher.I am ashamedtosaythatIbecame  rather rude, called her an interfering trout, whichresulted, as you mayhave  seen, in aspersions cast upon my sanity.”   “Well, in that interview.” Harry went on, “Rita Skeeter hinted that Professor  Dumbledore was involved int he Dark Arts when he was young.”   “Don’t believe a word of it!” said Dodge at once. “Not a word, Harry! Let  nothing tarnish your memories of Albus Dumbledore!   Harry looked into Doge’s earnest, pained face and felt, not reassured, but  frustrated. Did Doge really think it was that easy, that Harry could simply  choose not to believe? Didn’t Doge understand Harry’s need to be sure, to know  everything?   Perhaps Doge suspected Harry’s feelings, for he looked concerned and hurried  on, “Harry, Rita Skeeter is a dreadful—”   But he was interrupted by a shrill cackle.   “Rita Skeeter? Oh,Ilove her, always read her!”   Harry and Doge looked up to see Auntie Muriel standing there, the plumes  dancing on her hat, a goblet of champagne in her hand. “She’s written a book  about Dumbledore, you know!”   “Hello, Muriel,” said Doge. “Yes, we were just discussing—”   “You there! Give me your chair, I’m a hundred a seven!”   Another redheaded Weasley cousin jumped off his seat, looking alarmed,  and Auntie Muriel swung around it with surprising strength and plopped herself  down upon it between Doge and Harry.   “Hello again, Barry, or whatever your name is,” she said to Harry. “Now,  what were you saying about Rita Skeeter, Elphias? You know, she’s written a  biographyof Dumbledore?Ican’twaittoreadit,Imust remembertoplacean  order at Flourish and Blotts!”   Doge looked stiff and solemn at this, but Auntie Muriel drained her goblet   
 and clicked her bony fingers at a passing waiter for a replacement. she took  another large gulp of champagne, belched, and then said, “There’s no need to  look like a pair of stuffed frogs! Before he came so respected and respectable  and all that tosh, there were some mighty funny rumors about Albus!”   “Ill—informed sniping,” said Doge, turning radish-colored again.   “You would say that, Elphias,” cackled Auntie Muriel. “I noticed how you  skated over the sticky patches in that obituary of yours!”   “I’m sorry you think so,” said Doge, more coldly still. “I assure youI was  writing from the heart.”   “Oh, we all know you worshipped Dumbledore; Idaresayyou’ll still think  he was a saint even if it does turn out that he did awaywith his Squib sister!”   “Muriel!” exclaimed Doge.   Achillthathad nothingtodowiththeicedchampagnewas stealing through  Harry’s chest.   “Whatdoyoumean?”heasked Muriel.“WhosaidhissisterwasaSquib?I  thought she was ill?”   “Thought wrong, then, didn’t you, Barry!” said Auntie Muriel, looking  delighted at the effect she had produced. “Anyway, how could you expect to  know anything about it! It all happened years and years before you were even  thoughtof,mydear,andthetruthisthatthoseofuswhowerealivethen never  knew what really happened. That’swhyIcan’twaitto find out what Skeeter’s  unearthed! Dumbledore kept that sister of his quiet for a long time!”   “Untrue!” wheezed Doge, “Absolutely untrue!”   “He never told me his sisterwasaSquib,” said Harry,without thinking,still  cold inside.   “And why on earth would he tell you?” screeched Muriel, swaying a little in  her seat as she attempted to focus upon Harry.   “The reason Albus never spoke about Ariana,” began Elphias in a voice stiff  with emotion,“is,Ishouldhave thought,quiteclear.Hewasso devastatedby  her death—“   “Why did nobody ever see her, Elphias?” squawked Muriel, “Why did half of   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    us never even know she existed, until they carried the coffin out of the house  and held a funeral for her? Where was saintly Albus while Ariana was locked  in the cellar? Off being brilliant at Hogwarts, and never mind what was going  on in his own house!”   “What d’you mean, locked in the cellar?” asked Harry. “What is this?”   Doge looked wretched. Auntie Muriel cackled again and answered Harry.   “Dumbledore’s mother was a terrifying woman, simply terrifying. Muggleborn,  thoughIheard she pretended otherwise—“   “She never pretended anything of the sort! Kendra was a fine woman,”  whispered Doge miserably, but Auntie Muriel ignored him.   “—proud and very domineering, the sort of witchwho would have been mortified  to produce a Squib—“   “Ariana was not a Squib!” wheezed Doge.   “So you say, Elphias, but explain, then, why she never attended Hogwarts!”  said Auntie Muriel. She turned backto Harry. “In our day, Squibs were often  hushedup,thoughtto takeittothe extremeof actually imprisoninga littlegirl  in the house and pretending she didn’t exist—–“   “I tell you, that’s not what happened!” said Doge, but Auntie Muriel steamrollered  on, still addressing Harry.   Squibs were usually shipped off to Muggle schools and encouraged to integrate  into the Muggle community... much kinder than trying to find them  a placein theWizarding world, where they must alwaysbe secondclass, but  naturallyKendra Dumbledore wouldn’t have dreamed of letting her daughter  go to a Muggle school—–“   “Ariana was delicate!” said Doge desperately. “Her health was always too  poor to permit her—“   “—to permit her to leave the house?” cackled Muriel. “And yet she was  never taken to St. Mungo’s and no Healer was ever summoned to see her!”  “Really, Muriel, how can you possibly know whether—“   “For your information, Elphias, my cousin Lancelot was a Healer at St.  Mungo’s at the time, and he told my family in strictest confidence that Ariana   
 had never been seen there. All most suspicious, Lancelot thought!”   Doge looked to be on the verge of tears. Auntie Muriel, who seemed to  be enjoying herself hugely, snapped her fingers for more champagne. Numbly  Harry thought of how the Dursleys had once shut him up, locked him away,  kept him out of sight, all for the crime of being a wizard. Had Dumbledore’s  sister suffered the same fate in reverse: imprisoned for her lackof magic? Had  Dumbledore truly left her to her fate while he went off to Hogwarts to prove  himself brilliant and talented?   “Now, if Kendra hadn’t died first,” Muriel resumed, “I’d have said that it  was she who finished off Ariana—“   “How can you, Muriel!” groaned Doge. “A mother kill her own daughter?  Think what you’re saying!”   “Ifthe motherin questionwas capableof imprisoningher daughterfor years  onend,why not?” shrugged Auntie Muriel. “ButasI say,it doesn’tfit, because  Kendra died before Ariana—of what, nobody ever seemed sure—“   “Yes,Arianamighthavemadeadesperatebidfor freedomand killedKendra  in the struggle,” said Auntie Muriel thoughtfully. “Shake your head all you like,  Elphias.You were at Ariana’s funeral, were you not?”   “YesI was,” said Doge, through trembling lips, ”anda more desperately sad  occasionIcannot remember. Albuswas heartbroken—“   “His heartwasn’t the only thing. Didn’t Aberforth break Albus’ nose halfway  through the service?”   If Doge had looked horrified before this, it was nothing to how he looked  now. Muriel might have stabbed him. She cackled loudly and took another  swig of champagne, whichdribbled down her chin.   “How do you—?” croaked Doge.   “My mother was friendly with old Bathilda Bagshot,” said Auntie Muriel  happily. “Bathilda described the whole thing to mother whileI was listening  at the door. Acoffin-side brawl! The wayBathilda told it, Aberforth shouted  that it was all Albus’ fault that Ariana was dead and then punched him in  the face. According to Bathilda, Albus did not even defend himself, and that’s   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    odd enough in itself. Albus could have destroyed Aberforth in a duel with both  hands tied behind his back.   Muriel swigged yet more champagne. The recitation of those old scandals  seemed to elate her as much as they horrified Doge. Harry did not know what  to think, what to believe. He wanted the truth and yet all Doge did was sit  there and bleat feebly that Ariana had been ill. Harry could hardly believe that  Dumbledore would not have intervened if such cruelty was happening inside  his own house, and yet there was undoubtedly something odd about the story.   “And I’ll tell you something else,” Muriel said, hiccuping slightly as she  lowered her goblet. “I think Bathilda has spilled the beans to Rita Skeeter.  All those hints in Skeeter’s interview about an important source close to the  Dumbledores—goodness knows shewasthere all through the Ariana business,  and it would fit!”   “Bathilda, would never talk to Rita Skeeter!” whispered Doge.   “Bathilda Bagshot?” Harry said. “The author of AHistory of Magic?”   The name was printed on the front of one of Harry’s textbooks, though admittedly  not one of the ones he had read more attentively.   “Yes,” said Doge,clutching at Harry’s question likea drowning man ata life  heir. “Amost gifted magical historian and an old friend of Albus’s.”   “Quite gaga these days, I’ve heard,” said Auntie Muriel cheerfully.   “If that is so, it is even more dishonorable for Skeeter to have taken advantage  of her,” said Doge, “and no reliance can be placed on anything Bathilda  mayhave said!”   “Oh, there are ways of bringing backmemories, and I’m sure Rita Skeeter  knows them all,” said Auntie Muriel “But even if Bathilda’s completely cuckoo,  I’m sure she’d still have old photographs, maybe even letters. She knew the  Dumbledoresfor years....Well worthatripto Godric’sHollow,I’dhave thought.”   Harry, who had been taking a sip of butterbeer, choked. Doge banged him  on the back as Harry coughed, looking at Auntie Muriel through streaming  eyes. Once he had control of his voice again, he asked, “Bathilda Bagshot lives  in Godric’s Hollow?”   
 “Oh yes, she’s been there forever! The Dumbledores moved there afterPercival  was imprisoned, and she was their neighbor.”   “The Dumbledores lived in Godric’s Hollow?”   “Yes, Barry, that’s whatIjust said,” said Auntie Muriel testily.   Harry felt drained, empty. Never once, in six years, had Dumbledore told  Harry that they had both lived and lost loved ones in Godric’s Hollow. Why?  Were Lily and James buried close to Dumbledore’s mother and sister? Had  Dumbledore visited theirgraves, perhapswalkedpastLily’sandJames’stodo  so?Andhehad never oncetoldHarry...never botheredtosay ...   Andwhyitwasso important,Harrycouldnotexplainevento himself,yethe  felt it had been tantamount to a lie not to tell him that they had this place and  these experiences in common. He stared ahead of him, barely noticing what  was going on around him, and did not realize that Hermione had appeared out  of the crowd until she drew up a chair beside him.   “I simply can’t dance anymore,” she panted, slipping of one of her shoes and  rubbing the sole of her foot. “Ron’s gone looking to find more butterbeers. It’s  a bit odd. I’ve just seenViktor stormingawayfrom Luna’s father,it looked like  they’dbeen arguing—“ She dropped her voice, staring at him. “Harry, are you  okay?”   Harry did not know where to begin, but it did not matter, at that moment,  something large and silver came falling through the canopy over the dance  floor. Graceful and gleaming,the lynx landed lightly in the middle of the astonished  dancers. Heads turned, as those nearest it froze absurdly in mid-dance.  Then thePatronus’s mouth opened wide and it spoke in the loud, deep, slow  voice of Kingsley Shacklebolt.   “The Ministry has fallen. Scrimgeour is dead. They are coming.” “The Ministry  has fallen. Scrimgeour is dead. They are coming.” “The Ministry has  fallen. Scrimgeouris dead.They are coming.” “The Ministry has fallen. Scrimgeouris  dead.They are coming.”   
 CHAPTER  8.  THE  WEDDING    
 Chapter  9    A  Place  to  Hide    E E verything seemed fuzzy, slow. Harry and Hermione jumped to  their feet and drew their wands. Many people were only just realizing  that something strange had happened; heads were still turning  toward the silver cat as it vanished. Silence spread outward in cold ripples  from the place where thePatronus had landed. Then somebody screamed.   Harry and Hermione threw themselves into the panicking crowd. Guests  were sprinting in all directions; many were Disapparating; the protective enchantments  around the Burrow had broken.   “Ron!” Hermione cried. “Ron, where are you?”   As they pushed their way across the dance floor, Harry saw cloaked and  masked figures appearing in the crowd; then he saw Lupin andTonks, their  wands raised, and heard both of them shout, “Protego!”, a cry that was echoed  on all sides—   “Ron! Ron!” Hermione called, half sobbing as she and Harry were buffered  by terrified guests: Harry seized her hand to make sure they weren’t separated  as a streak of light whizzed over their heads, whether a protective charm or  something more sinister he did not know—   And then Ron was there. He caught hold of Hermione’s free arm, and  Harry felt her turn on the spot; sight and sound were extinguished as dark   141   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    ness pressed in upon him; all he could feel was Hermione’s hand as he was  squeezed through space and time, away from the Burrow, away from the descending  Death Eaters, away, perhaps, fromVoldemort himself....   “Where are we?” said Ron’s voice.   Harry opened his eyes. For a moment he thought they had not left the  wedding after all; They still seemed to be surrounded by people.   “Tottenham Court Road,” panted Hermione. “Walk, just walk, we need to  find somewhere for you to change.”   Harry did as she asked. They half walked, half ran up the wide dark street  thronged with late-night revelers and lined with closed shops, stars twinkling  above them. Adouble-decker bus rumbled by and a group of merry pub-goers  ogled them as they passed; Harry and Ron were still wearing dress robes.   “Hermione,wehaven’tgot anythingtochangeinto,”Rontoldher,asayoung  woman burst into raucous giggles at the sight of him.   “Why didn’tImakesureIhad the Invisibility Cloak with me?” said Harry,  inwardly cursing his own stupidity. “All last yearIkeptit on me and—“   “It’sokay,I’vegottheCloak,I’vegotclothesforbothofyou,”said Hermione,  “Justtryandact naturally until—thiswilldo.”Sheledthemdownaside street,  then into the shelter of a shadowy alleyway.   “Whenyousayyou’vegotthe Cloak,andclothes ... ” said Harry, frowning  at Hermione, who was carrying nothing except her small beaded handbag, in  whichshe was now rummaging.   “Yes, they’re here,” said Hermione, and to Harry and Ron’s utter astonishment,  she pulled out a pair of jeans, a sweatshirt, some maroon socks, and  finally the silvery Invisibility Cloak.   “How the ruddy hell—?”   “Undetectable Extension Charm,” said Hermione. “Tricky, butIthink I’ve  done it okay; anyway,Imanaged to fit everything we need in here.” She gave  the fragile-lookingbagalittleshakeanditechoedlikeacargoholdasanumber  of heavy objects rolled around inside it. “Oh, damn, that’ll be the books,” she  said, peering into it, “andI had them all stackedby subject.... Oh well....   
 Harry, you’dbetter take the Invisibility Cloak. Ron, hurryup andchange.... ”   “When did you do all this?” Harry asked as Ron stripped off his robes.   “I told you at the Burrow, I’ve had the essentials packed for days, you know,  in casewe neededtomakeaquickgetaway.Ipackedyourrucksackthis morning,  Harry, afteryouchanged,andputitin here.... Ijusthada feeling....  ”   “You’re amazing, you are,” said Ron, handing her his bundled-up robes.   “Thank you,” said Hermione, managing a small smile as she pushed the  robes into the bag. “Please, Harry, get that Cloak on!”   Harry threw his Invisibility Cloak around his shoulders and pulled it up  over his head, vanishing from sight. He was only just beginning to appreciate  what had happened.   “The others—everybody at the wedding—“   “We can’t worry about that now,” whispered Hermione. “It’s you they’re  after, Harry, and we’ll just put everyone in even more danger by going back.”   “She’s right,” said Ron, who seemed to know that Harrywas about to argue,  even if he could not see his face. “Most of the Order was there, they’ll look  after everyone.” Harry nodded, then remembered that they could not see him,  and said, “Yeah.” But he thought of Ginny, and fear bubbled like acid in his  stomach.   “Come on,Ithink we ought to keep moving,” said Hermione.   They moved back up the side street and onto the main road again, where  a group of men on the opposite side was singing and weaving across the pavement.    “Just as a matter of interest, why Tottenham Court Road?” Ron asked  Hermione.   “I’ve no idea, it just popped into my head, but I’m sure we’re safer out in the  Muggle world, it’s not where they’ll expect us to be.”   “True,” said Ron, looking around, “but don’t you feel a bit—exposed?”   “Where else is there?” asked Hermione, cringing as the men on the other  side of the road started wolf-whistling at her. “We can hardly book rooms at   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    the Leaky Cauldron, can we? And Grimmauld Place is out if Snape can get in  there.... I supposewe couldtrymy parents’ home, thoughI think there’sa  chance they mightcheckthere.... Oh,Iwish they’dshut up!”   “All right, darling?” the drunkest of the men on the other pavement was  yelling. “Fancy a drink? Ditchginger and come and have a pint!”   “Let’ssit down somewhere,” Hermione said hastily as Ron opened his mouth  to shout back across the road. “Look, this will do, in here!”   Itwasasmallandshabby all-nightcaf.Alightlayerofgreaselayonallthe  Formica-topped tables, but it was at least empty. Harry slipped into a booth  first and Ron sat next to him opposite Hermione, who had her back to the  entrance and did not like it: She glanced over her shoulder so frequently she  appeared to have a twitch. Harry did not like being stationary; walking had  giventhe illusionthattheyhadagoal. BeneaththeCloakhecouldfeelthelast  vestigesofPolyjuiceleavinghim,hishands returningtotheirusuallengthand  shape. He pulled his glasses out of his pocket and put them on again.   After a minute or two, Ron said, “You know, we’re not far from the Leaky  Cauldron here, it’s only in Charing Cross—“   “Ron, we can’t!” said Hermione at once.   “Not to staythere, but to find out what’s going on!”   “We know what’s going on! Voldemort’s taken over the Ministry, what else  do we need to know?”   “Okay, okay, it was just an idea!”   They relapsed into a prickly silence. The gum-chewing waitress shuffled  over and Hermione ordered two cappuccinos: As Harry was invisible, it would  have lookedoddto orderhim one.Apairofburly workmen enteredthecafand  squeezed into the next booth. Hermione dropped her voice to a whisper.   “I say we find a quiet place to Disapparate and head for the countryside.  Once we’re there, we could send a message to the Order.”   “Can youdo that talkingPatronus thing, then?” asked Ron.   “I’ve been practicing andIthink so,” said Hermione.   “Well, as long as it doesn’t get them into trouble, though they might’ve been   
 arrested already. God, that’s revolting,” Ron added after one sip of the foamy,  grayish coffee. The waitress had heard; she shot Ron a nasty look as she shuffled  off to take the new customers’ orders. The larger of the two workmen, who  was blond and quite huge, now that Harry came to look at him, waved her  away. She stared, affronted.   “Let’sget going,then,Idon’twantto drink this muck,” said Ron. “Hermione,  have you got Muggle money to payfor this?”   “Yes,Itookoutallmy Building Societysavings beforeIcametothe Burrow.  I’ll bet all the change is at the bottom,” sighed Hermione, reaching for her  beaded bag.   The two workmen made identical movements, and Harry mirrored them  without conscious thought: All three of them drew their wands. Ron, a few  seconds late in realizing what was going on, lunged across the table, pushing  Hermione sideways onto her bench. The force of the Death Eaters’ spells shattered  the tiled wall where Ron’s head had just been, as Harry, still invisible,  yelled, “Stupefy!”   The great blond Death Eater was hit in the face by a jet of red light: He  slumped sideways, unconscious. His companion, unable to see who had cast  the spell, fired another at Ron: Shining blackropes flew from his wand-tip and  bound Ron head to foot—the waitress screamed and ran for the door—Harry  sent another Stunning Spell at the Death Eater with the twisted face who  had tied up Ron, but the spell missed, rebounded on the window, and hit the  waitress, who collapsed in front of the door.   “Expulso!” bellowed the Death Eater,and the table behind whichHarrywas  standing blew up: The force of the explosion slammed him into the wall and he  felt his wand leave his hand as the Cloak slipped off him.   “PetrificusTotalus!” screamed Hermione from out of sight, and the Death  Eater fell forward like a statue to land with a crunching thud on the mess of  broken china, table, and coffee. Hermione crawled out from underneath the  bench, shaking bits of glass ashtrayout of her hair and trembling all over.   “D-diffindo,” she said, pointing her wand at Ron, who roared in pain as she   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    slashed open the knee of his jeans, leaving a deep cut. “Oh, I’m so sorry, Ron,  my hand’s shaking! Diffindo!”   The severed ropes fell away. Ron got to his feet, shaking his arms to regain  feelingin them. Harrypickeduphiswandandclimbed overallthe debristo  where the large blond Death Eater was sprawled across the bench.   “I should’ve recognized him, he was there the night Dumbledore died,” he  said. He turned over the darker Death Eater with his foot; the man’s eyes  moved rapidly between Harry, Ron and Hermione.   “That’s Dolohov,” said Ron. “I recognize him from the old wanted posters. I  think the big one’s Thorfinn Rowle.”   “Never mind what they’re called!” said Hermione a little hysterically. “How  did they find us? What are we going to do?”   Somehow her panic seemed to clear Harry’s head.   “Lockthe door,” he told her, “and Ron, turn out the lights.”   He looked down at the paralyzed Dolohov, thinking fast as the lock clicked  and Ron used the Deluminator to plunge the caf into darkness. Harry could  hear the men who had jeered at Hermione earlier, yelling at another girl in the  distance.   “What are we going to do with them?” Ron whispered to Harry through the  dark; then, even more quietly, “Kill them? They’dkill us. They had a good go  just now.”   Hermione shuddered and took a step backward. Harry shook his head.   “We just need to wipe their memories,” said Harry. “It’s better like that, it’ll  throw them off the scent. If we killed them it’dbe obvious we were here.”   “You’re the boss,” said Ron, sounding profoundly relieved. “But I’ve never  down a Memory Charm.”   “NorhaveI,” said Hermione, “butIknow the theory.”   She took a deep, calming breath, then pointed her wand at Dolohov’s forehead  and said, “Obliviate.”   At once, Dolohov’s eyes became unfocused and dreamy.   “Brilliant!” said Harry, clapping her on the back. “Take care of the other   
 one and thewaitress while Ron andI clearup.”   “Clear up?” said Ron, looking around at the partly destroyed caf. “Why?”   “Don’t you think they might wonder what’s happened if they wake up and  find themselves in a place that looks like it’s just been bombed?”   “Oh right,yeah... ”   Ron struggled for a moment before managing to extract his wand from his  pocket.   “It’sno wonderIcan’tgetitout, Hermione,youpackedmyoldjeans, they’re  tight.”   “Oh, I’m so sorry,” hissed Hermione, and as she dragged the waitress out  of sight of the windows, Harry heard her mutter a suggestion as to where Ron  could stickhis wand instead.   Oncethecaf´ewas restoredtoits previous condition,theyheavedthe Death  Eaters backinto their booth and propped them up facing eachother.   “But how did they find us?” Hermione asked, looking from one inert man to  the other. “How did they know where we were?”   She turned to Harry.   “You—you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on you, do you, Harry?”   “He can’thave,” said Ron. “The Trace breaksat seventeen, that’sWizarding  law, you can’t put it on an adult.”   “As far as you know,” said Hermione. “What if the Death Eaters have found  a wayto put it on a seventeen-year-old?”   “But Harry hasn’t been near a Death Eater in the last twenty-four hours.  Who’s supposed to have put a Trace back on him?”   Hermione did not reply. Harry felt contaminated, tainted: Was that really  how the Death Eaters had found them?   “IfI can’t use magic, and you can’t use magic near me, without us giving  away our position—“ he began.   “We’re not splitting up!” said Hermione firmly.   “We need a safe place to hide,” said Ron. “Give us time to think things  through.”   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    “Grimmauld Place,” said Harry.   The other two gaped.   “Don’t be silly, Harry, Snape can get in there!”   “Ron’s dadsaid they’ve put up jinxes against him—and even if they haven’t  worked,” he pressed on as Hermione began to argue “so what?I swear, I’dlike   nothing better than to meet Snape!”   “But—“   “Hermione, where else is there? It’s the best chance we’ve got. Snape’s only  one Death Eater. If I’ve still got the Trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of  them on us wherever else we go.”   She could not argue, though she looked as if she would have liked to. While  she unlocked the caf door, Ron clicked the Deluminator to release the caf’s  light. Then, on Harry’s count of three, they reversed the spells upon their  three victims, and before the waitress or either of the Death Eaters could do  more than stir sleepily, Harry, Ron and Hermione had turned on the spot and  vanished into the compressing darkness once more.   Seconds later Harry’s lungs expanded gratefully and he opened his eyes:  They were now standing in the middle of a familiar small and shabby square.  Tall, dilapidated houses looked down on them from every side. Number twelve  was visible to them, for they had been told of its existence by Dumbledore, its  Secret-Keeper, and they rushed toward it, checking every few yards that they  were not being followed or observed. They raced up the stone steps, and Harry  tapped the front door once with his wand. They heard a series of metallic  clicks and the clatter of a chain, then the door swung open with a creak and  they hurried over the threshold.   As Harry closed the door behind them, the old-fashioned gas lamps sprang  into life, casting flickering light along the length of the hallway. It looked just  as Harry remembered it: eerie, cobwebbed, the outlines of the house-elf heads  on the wall throwing odd shadows up the staircase. Long dark curtains concealed  the portrait of Sirius’s mother. The only thing that was out of place was  the troll’sleg umbrella stand, which was lyingonits sideasifTonkshadjust   
 knocked it over again.   “I think somebody’s been in here,” Hermione whispered, pointing toward it.   “That could’ve happened as the Order left,” Ron murmured back.   “So where are these jinxes they put up against Snape?” Harry asked.   “Maybe they’re only activated if he shows up?” suggested Ron.   Yet they remained close together on the doormat, backs against the door,  scared to move farther into the house.   “Well, we can’t stayhere forever,” said Harry, and he took a step forward.   “Severus Snape?”   Mad-Eye Moody’s voice whispered out of the darkness, making all three of  them jump backin fright. “We’re not Snape!” croaked Harry, before something  whooshed over him like cold air and his tongue curled backward on itself, makingit  impossibletospeak. Beforehehadtimetofeelinsidehismouth, however,  his tongue had unraveled again.   The other two seemed to have experienced the same unpleasant sensation.  Ron was making retching noises; Hermione stammered, “That m-must have  b-been theT-Tongue-Tying Curse Mad-Eye setup for Snape!”   Gingerly Harry took another step forward. Something shifted in the shadows  at the end of the hall, and before any of them could sayanother word, a  figure had risen up out of the carpet, tall, dust-colored, and terrible; Hermione  screamed and so did Mrs. Black, her curtains flying open; the grayfigure was  gliding toward them, faster and faster, its waist-length hair and beard streaming  behind it, its face sunken, fleshless, with empty eye sockets: Horribly familiar,  dreadfully altered, it raised a wasted arm, pointing at Harry.   “No!” Harry shouted, and though he had raised his wand no spell occurred  tohim.“No!Itwasn’tus!We didn’tkillyou—“   On the word kill, the figure explodedina greatcloudof dust: Coughing, his  eyes watering, Harry looked around to see Hermione crouched on the floor by  the door with her arms over her head, and Ron, who was shaking from head  to foot, patting herclumsily on the shoulder and saying, “It’s allr-right.... It’s  g-gone.... ” Dust swirled around Harry like mist, catching the blue gaslight,   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    as Mrs. Blackcontinued to scream.   “Mudbloods, filth, stains of dishonor, taint of shame on the house of my  fathers—“   “SHUT UP!” Harry bellowed, directing his wand at her, and with a bang  and a burst of red sparks, the curtains swung shut again, silencing her.   “That...thatwas... “ Hermione whimpered,asRonhelpedhertoher feet.   “Yeah,”saidHarry,“butitwasn’treallyhim,wasit?Just somethingto scare  Snape.”   Had it worked, Harry wondered, or had Snape already blasted the horror- figure aside as casually as he had killed the real Dumbledore? Nerves still  tingling, he led the other two up the hall, half-expecting some new terror to  reveal itself,but nothing moved except foramouse skittering along the skirting  board.   “Before wego any farther,Ithink we’dbettercheck,” whispered Hermione,  and she raised her wand and said, “Homenum revelio.”   Nothing happened.   “Well, you’ve just had a big shock,” said Ron kindly. “What was that supposed  to do?”   “Itdid whatI meantitto do!” said Hermione rather crossly. “Thatwasa  spell to reveal human presence, and there’s nobody here except us!”   “And old Dusty,” said Ron, glancing at the patch of carpet from which the  corpse-figure had risen.   “Let’s go up,” said Hermione with a frightened look at the same spot, and  she led the wayup the creaking stairs to the drawing room on the first floor.  Hermione waved her wand to ignite the old gas lamps, then, shivering slightly  in the drafty room, she perched on the sofa, her arms wrapped tightly around  her. Ron crossed to the window and moved the heavy velvet curtains aside an  inch.   “Can’t see anyone out there,” he reported. “And you’d think, if Harry still  had a Trace on him, they’dhave followed us here. Iknow they can’t get in the  house, but—what’s up, Harry?”   
 Harry had given a cry of pain: His scar had burned against as something  flashed across his mind like a bright light on water. He saw a large shadow  and felt a fury that was not his own pound through his body, violent and brief  as an electric shock.   “What did you see?” Ron asked, advancing on Harry. “Did you see him at  my place?”   “No,Ijust felt anger—he’s really angry—“   “But that could be at the Burrow,” said Ron loudly. “What else? Didn’t you  see anything?Washe cursing someone?”   “No,Ijust felt anger—I couldn’t tell—“   Harry felt badgered, confused, and Hermione did not help as she said in  a frightened voice, “Your scar, again? But what’s going on? I thought that  connection had closed!”   “It did, for a while,” muttered Harry; his scar was still painful, whichmade  it hard to concentrate. “I-I think it’s started opening again whenever he loses  control, that’s how it used to—“   “But then you’ve got to close your mind!” said Hermione shrilly. “Harry,  Dumbledore didn’t want you to use that connection, he wanted you to shut it  down, that’s why you were supposed to use Occlumency!OtherwiseVoldemort  can plant false images in your mind, remember—“   “Yeah, I do remember, thanks,” said Harry through gritted teeth; he did  not need Hermione to tell him that Voldemort had once used this selfsame  connection between them to lead him into a trap, nor that it had resulted in  Sirius’s death. He wished that he had no told them what he had seen and felt;  it madeVoldemort more threatening, as though he were pressing against the  window of the room, and still the pain in his scar was building and he fought  it: It was like resisting the urge to be sick.   He turned his back on Ron and Hermione, pretending to examine the old  tapestry of the Blackfamily tree on the wall. Then Hermione shrieked: Harry  drew hiswand again and spun around to seea silverPatronus soar through  the drawing room window and land upon the floor in front of them, where it   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    solidified into the weasel that spoke with the voice of Ron’sfather. “Familysafe,  do not reply, we are being watched.”   The Patronus dissolved into nothingness. Ron let out a noise between a  whimper and a groan and dropped onto the sofa: Hermione joined him, gripping  his arm. “They’re all right,they’re all right!” she whispered, and Ron half  laughed and hugged her.   “Harry,” he said over Hermione’s shoulder, “I—“   “It’s not a problem,” said Harry, sickened by the pain in his head. “It’s your  family, ’course you were worried. I’dfeel the same way.” He thought of Ginny.  “I do feel the same way.”   The pain in his scar was reaching a peak, burning as it had back in the  gardenofthe Burrow.Faintlyhe heard Hermionesay“I don’twanttobeonmy  own. Could we use the sleeping bags I’ve brought and camp in here tonight?”   He heard Ron agree. He could not fight the pain much longer. He had to  succumb.   “Bathroom,” he muttered, and he left the room as fast as he could without  running. He barely made it: Bolting the door behind him with trembling hands,  he grasped his pounding head and fell to the floor,then in an explosion of agony,  he felt the rage that did not belong to him possess his soul, saw a long room lit  only by firelight, and the giant blond Death Eater on the floor, screaming and  writhing, and a slighter figure standing over him, wand outstretched, while  Harry spoke in a high, cold, merciless voice.   “More, Rowle, or shall we end it and feed you to Nagini? LordVoldemort is  not surethathewill forgivethistime....You calledmebackforthis,totellme  that HarryPotter has escaped again? Draco, give Rowle another taste of our  displeasure....Doit,orfeelmy wrath yourself!”   A log fell in the fire: Flames reared, their light darting across a terrified,  pointed white face—with a sense of emerging from deep water, Harry drew  heaving breaths and opened his eyes.   He was spread-eagled on the cold black marble floor, his nose inches from  one of the silver serpent tails that supported the large bathtub. He sat up.   
 Malfoy’s gaunt, petrified face seemed burned on the inside of his eyes. Harry  felt sickened by what he had seen, by the use to which Draco was now being  put byVoldemort.   There was a sharp rap on the door, and Harry jumped as Hermione’s voice  rang out.   “Harry, do you want your toothbrush? I’ve got it here.”   “Yeah, great, thanks,” he said, fighting to keep his voice casual as he stood  up to let her in.   
 CHAPTER  9.  A  PLACE  TO  HIDE    
 Chapter  10    Kreacher’s  Tale    H H arry woke early next morning, wrapped in a sleeping bag on  the drawing room floor. A chink of sky was visible between the  heavy curtains. It was the cool, clear blue of watered ink, somewhere  between night and dawn, and everything was quiet except for Ron and  Hermione’s slow, deep breathing. Harry glanced over at the dark shapes they  made on the floor beside him. Ron had had a fit of gallantry and insisted that  Hermione sleep on the cushions from the sofa, so that her silhouettewas raised  above his. Her arm curved to the floor, her fingers inches from Ron’s. Harry  wondered whether they had fallen asleep holding hands. The idea made him  feel strangely lonely.   He looked up at the shadowy ceiling, the cobwebbed chandelier. Less than  twenty—four house ago, he had been standing in the sunlight at the entrance  to the marquee, waiting to show in wedding guests. It seemed a lifetime away.  What was going to happen now? He lay on the floor and he thought of the Horcruxes, of the daunting complex mission Dumbledore had left him.... Dumbledore  ...   The grief that had possessed him since Dumbledore’s death felt different  now. The accusations he had heard from Muriel at the wedding seemed to have  nested in his brain like diseased things, infecting his memories of the wizard   155   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    he had idolized. Could Dumbledore have let suchthings happen? Had he been  like Dudley, content to watch neglect and abuse as long as it did not affect  him? Could he have turned his back on a sister who was being imprisoned and  hidden?   Harry thought of Godric’s Hollow, of graves Dumbledore had never mentioned  there; he thought of mysterious objects left without explanation in Dumbledore’s  will, and resentment swelled in the darkness. Why hadn’t Dumbledore  told him? Why hadn’t he explained? Had Dumbledore actually cared  about Harry at all? Or had Harry been nothing more than a tool to be polished  and honed, but not trusted, never confided in?   Harry could not stand lying there with nothing but bitter thoughts for company.  Desperate for something to do, for distraction, he slipped out of his sleeping  bad, picked up his wand, and crept out of the room. On the landing he  whispered, “Lumos,” and started to climb the stairs by wandlight.   On the second landing was the bedroom in whichhe and Ron had slept last  time they had been here; he glanced into it. The wardrobe doors stood open  and the bedclothes had been ripped back. Harry remembered the overturned  troll leg downstairs. Somebody had searched the house since the Order had  left. Snape? Or perhaps Mundungus, who had pilfered plenty from this house  both before and after Sirius died? Harry’s gaze wandered to the portrait that  sometimes contained Phineas Nigellus Black, Sirius’s great-great-grandfather,  but it was empty, showing nothing but a stretchof muddy backdrop. Phineas  Nigellus was evidently spending the night in the headmaster’s study at Hog- warts.   Harry continued up the stairs until he reached the topmost landing where  there were only two doors. The one facing him borea nameplate reading Sirius.  Harry had never entered his godfather’s bedroom before. He pushed open the  door, holding his wand high to cast light as widely as possible. The room was  spacious and must once have been handsome. There was a large bed with  a carved wooden headboard, a tall window obscured by long velvet curtains  and a chandelier thickly coated in dust with candle scrubs still resting in its   
 sockets, solid wax banging in frostlike drips. A fine film of dust covered the  pictures on thewalls and the bed’sheadboard;aspiders web stretched between  the chandelier and the top of the large wooden wardrobe, and as Harry moved  deeper into the room, he head a scurrying of disturbed mice.   The teenage Sirius had plastered the walls with so many posters and pictures  that little of the walls silvery-gray silk was visible. Harry could only  assume that Sirius’s parents had been unable to remove thePermanent StickingCharmthatkeptthemonthewall  becausehewassuretheywouldnothave  appreciated their eldest son’s taste in decoration. Sirius seemed to have lone  gone out of his wayto annoy his parents. There were several large Gryffindor  banners,faded scarlet and hold just to underline his difference from all the rest  of the Slytherin family. There were many pictures of Muggle motorcycles, and  also (Harry had to admire Sirius’s nerve) several posters of bikini-clad Muggle  girls. Harry could tell that they were Muggles because they remained quite  stationary within their pictures, faded smiles and glazed eyes frozen on the  paper. Thiswasin contrast the onlyWizarding photograph on thewalls which  was a picture of four Hogwarts students standing arm in arm, laughing at the  camera.   With a leap of pleasure, Harry recognized his father, his untidy blackhair  stuck up at the back like Harry’s, and he too wore glasses. Beside him was  Sirius, carelessly handsome, his slightly arrogant face so much younger and  happier than Harry had ever seen it alive. To Sirius’s right stoodPettigrew,  more than a head shorter, plump and watery-eyed, flushed with pleasure at  hisinclusioninthis coolestofgangs,withthemuch-admiredrebelsthatJames  and Sirius had been. On James’s left was Lupin, even then a little shabby- looking, but he had the same air of delighted surprise at finding himself liked  and included or was it simply because Harry knew how it had been, that he  saw these things in the picture? He tried to take it from the wall; it was his  now, after all, Sirius had left him everything, but it would not budge. Sirius  had taken no chances in preventing his parents from redecorating his room.   Harry looked around at the floor. The sky outside was growing brightest.   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    Ashaft of light revealed bits of paper, books, and small objects scattered over  the carpet. Evidently Sirius’s bedroom had been searched too, although its  contents seemed to have been judged mostly, if not entirely, worthless. Afew  of the books had been shaken roughly enough to part company with the covers  and sundry pages littered the floor.   Harrybentdown,pickedupafewofthepiecesofpaper,and examinedthem.  He recognized oneasapartofanold editionofAHistoryofMagic,by Barhilda  Bagshot, and another as belonging to a motorcycle maintenance manual. The  third was handwritten and crumpled. He smoothed it out.   DearPadfoot,  Thank you, thank you, for Harry’s birthday present! It was his  favorite by far. One year old and already zooming along on a toy  broomstick,he lookedsopleasedwith himself.I’m enclosingapicture  soyou can see.Youknowitonlyrises abouttwofeetoffthegroundbut  he nearlykilled the cat andhe smasheda horrible vasePetunia sent  me for Christmas (no complaints there). Of course James thought  it was so funny, says he’s going to be a great Quidditch player, but  we’ve had to pack away all the ornaments and make sure we don’t  take our eyes off him when he gets going.  We had a very quiet birthday tea, just us and old Bathilda who  has always been sweet to us and who dotes on Harry. We were so  sorry you couldn’t come,but the Order’s got to come first, and Harry’s  not old enough to know it’s his birthday anyway! James is getting a  bit frustratedshutuphere,hetriesnottoshowitbutI can tell—also  Dumbledore’s still got his Invisibility Cloak, so no chance of little  excursions.Ifyou could visit,it wouldcheerhimupso much.Wormy  was here last weekend. I thought he seemed down, but that was  probablythe next about the McKinnons;I cried all evening whenI  heard.  Bathilda drops in most days, she’s a fascinating old thing with   
 the most amazing stories about Dumbledore. I’m not sure he’d be   pleased if he knew! I don’t know how much to believe, actuallybe   cause it seems incredible that Dumbledore   Harry’s extremities seemed to have gone numb. He stood quite still, holding  the miraculous paperinhis nerveless fingers while insidehimakindof quiet  eruptions sent joy and grief thundering its equal measure through his veins.  Lurching to the bed, he sat down.   He read the letter again, but could not take in any more meaning than he  had done the first time, and was reduced to staring at the handwriting itself.  She had made her “g”s the same wayhe did. He searched through the letter  for every one of them, and each felt like a friendly little wave glimpsed from  behinda veil. The letterwas an incredible treasure, proof that LilyPotter had  lived, really lived, that her warm hand had once moved across this parchment,  tracing ink into these letters, these words, words about him, Harry, her son.  Impatiently brushing awaythe wetness in his eyes, he reread the letter, this  time concentrating on the meaning. It was like listening to a half-remembered  voice.   Theyhadacat...perhapsithad perished,likehis parentsat Godric’sHollow  ...or else fled when therewas nobody left to feed it...Sirius had bought  him his first broomstick ...His parents had known Bathilda Bagshot; had  Dumbledore introduced them? Dumbledore’s still got his Invisibility Cloak  ...therewas something funny there...Harry paused, ponderinghis mother’s  words. Why had Dumbledore taken James’s Invisibility Cloak? Harry distinctly  remembered his headmaster telling him years before, “I don’t need a  cloak to become invisible”Perhaps some less gifted Order member had needed  its assistance, and Dumbledore had acted asa carrier? Harry passed on....   Wormy was here...Pettigrew, the traitor, had seemed “down” had he?Was  heaware thathewas seeingJames and Lily alive for the last time?   And finally Bathilda again, who told incredible stories about Dumbledore.  It seems incredible that Dumbledore—   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    That Dumbledore what? But there were any number of things that would  seem incredible about Dumbledore; that he had once received bottom marks in  a Transfiguration test, for instance or had taken up goat charming like Aberforth....    Harry got to his feet and scanned the floor: Perhaps the rest of the letter  was here somewhere. He seized papers, treating them in his eagerness, with  as little consideration as the original searcher, he pulled open drawers, shook  out books, stood on a chair to run his hand over the top of the wardrobe, and  crawled under the bed and armchair.   At last, lying facedown on the floor, he spotted what looked like a torn piece  ofpaperunderthechestofdrawers. Whenhepulleditout,itprovedtobemost  ofthe photographthatLilyhad describedinher letter.Ablack-hairedbabywas  zooming in and out of the picture on a tiny broom, roaring with laughter, and  apairoflegs that musthave belongedtoJameswaschasing after him. Harry  tucked the photograph into his pocket with Lily’s letter and continued to look  for the second sheet.   After another quarterofanhour,howeverhewas forcedto concludethatthe  restofhis mother’s letterwasgone.Haditsimplybeenlostinthe sixteenyears  thathadelapsedsinceithadbeenwritten,orhaditbeentakenbywhoeverhad  searched the room? Harry read the first sheet again, this time looking forclues  as to what might have made the second sheet valuable. His toy broomstick  could hardlybe considered interestingtothe Death Eaters...Theonly potentially  usefulthinghe could seeherwas possible informationon Dumbledore. It  seems incredible that Dumbledore—what?   “Harry? Harry? Harry!”   “I’m here!” he called, “What’s happened?”   Therewasaclatteroffootstepsoutsidethedoor,and Hermioneburstinside.   “We woke up and didn’t know where you were!” she said breathlessly. She  turned and shouted over her shoulder, “Ron! I’ve found him”   Ron’s annoyed voice echoed distantly from several floors below.   “Good!Tell him from me he’sa git!”   
 “Harry don’t just disappear, please, we were terrified! Why did you come up  here anyway?” She gazed around the ransacked room. “What have you been  doing?”   “Look what I’ve just found”   He held out his mother’s letter. Hermione took it out and read it while  Harrywatchedher. Whenshe reachedtheendofthe pageshelookedupat  him.   “Oh Harry... ”   “And there’s this too.”   He handed her the torn photograph, and Hermione smiled at the baby zooming  in and out of sight on the toy broom.   “I’ve been looking for the rest of the letter,” Harry said, “but it’s not here”   Hermione glanced around.   “Did you make all this mess, or was some of it done when you got here?”   “Someone had searched before me,” said Harry.   “I thoughtso. Every roomIlooked intoonthewayuphad been disturbed.  What were they after, do you think?”   “Information on the Order, if it was Snape”   “But you’dthink he’dalready have all he needed. I mean was in the Order,  wasn’t he?”   “Well then,” said Harry, keen to discuss his theory, “what about information  on Dumbledore? The second page of the letter, for instance. You know this  Bathilda my mum mentions, you know who she is?”   “Who?”   “Bathilda Bagshot, the author of—“   “A History of Magic,” said Hermione, looking interested. “So your parents  knew her? She was an incredible magic historian.”   “And she’s still alive,” said Harry, “and she lives in Godric’s Hollow. Ron’s  Auntie Muriel was talking about her at the wedding. She knew Dumbledore’s  family too. Be pretty interesting to talk to, wouldn’t she?”   There was a little too muchunderstanding in the smile Hermione gave him   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    for Harry’s liking. He took back the letter and the photograph and tucked  them inside the pouch around his neck, so as not to have to look at her and  give himself away.   “I understand why you’dlove to talk to her about, and Dumbledore too,” said  Hermione. “But that wouldn’t really help us in our searchfor the Horcruxes,  would it?” Harry did not answer, and she rushed on, “Harry,Iknow you really  want to go to Godric’s Hollow, but I’m scared. I’m scared at how easily those  Death Eaters found us yesterday. It just makes me feel more than ever that  we ought to avoid the place where your parents are buried, I’m sure they’dbe  expecting you to visit it.”   “It’s not just that,” Harry said, still avoiding looking at her, “Muriel said  stuff about Dumbledoreatthe wedding.I wanttoknowthe truth....”   He told Hermione everything that Muriel had told him. When he had finished,  Hermione said, “Of course,I can see why that’s upset you, Harry—“   “I’m not upset,” he lied, “I’djust like to know whether or not it’s true or—“   “Harry do you really think you’ll get the truth from a malicious old woman  like Muriel, or from Rita Skeeter? How can you believe them?You knew Dumbledore!”    “I thoughtIdid,”he muttered.   “But you know how much truth there was in everything Rita wrote about  you! Doge is right, how can you let these people tarnish your memories of  Dumbledore?”   He looked away, trying not to betraythe resentment he felt. There it was  again: Choose what to believe. He wanted the truth. Why was everybody so  determined that he should not get it?   “Shall we go down to the kitchen?” Hermione suggested after a little pause.  “Find something for breakfast?”   He agreed, but grudgingly, and followed her out onto the landing and past  the second door that led off it. There were deep scratchmarks in the paintwork  below a small sign that he had not noticed in the dark. He passed at the top of  the stairs to read it. It was a porapous little sign, neatly lettered by hand the   
 sortof thing thatPercyWeasley mighthave stuck on his bedroom door.   Do Not Enter  Without the ExpressPermissionof  Regulus Arcturus Black    Excitement trickled through Harry, but he was not immediately sure why.  He read the sign again. Hermione was already a flight of stairs below him.   “Hermione,” he said, and he was surprised that his voice was so calm.  “Come backup here.”   “What’s the matter?”   “R.A.B.Ithink I’ve found him.”   There was a gasp, and then Hermione ran backup the stairs.   “In your mum’s letter? ButIdidn’t see—“   Harry shook his head, pointing at Regulus’s sign. She read it, thenclutched   Harry’s arm so tightly that he winced.   “Sirius’s brother?” she whispered.   “He was a Death Eater,” said Harry. “Sirius told me about him, he joined  up when he was really young and then got cold feet and tried to leave—so they  killed him.”   “That fits!” gasped Hermione. “If he was a Death Eater he had access  toVoldemort, andifhe became disenchanted, thenhe wouldhavewantedto  bringVoldemort down!”   She released Harry, leaned over the banister, and screamed, “Ron! RON!   Get up here, quick!”   Ron appeared, panting, a minute later, his wand ready in his hand.   “What’sup?Ifit’s massive spidersagainI want breakfast beforeI—“   He frowned at the sign on Regulus’s door, in whichHermione was silently  pointing.   “What? Thatwas Sirius’s brother,wasn’tit? Regulus Arcturus ...Regulus  ... R.A.B.! The locket—you don’t reckon—?”   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    “Let’s find out,” said Harry. He pushed the door: It was locked. Hermione  pointed her wand at the handle and said, “Alohamora.” There was a click, and  the door swung open.   They moved over the threshold together, gazing around. Regulus’s bedroomwas  slightly smaller than Sirius’s, thoughithadthe same senseof former  grandeur. Whereas Sirius had sought to advertise his diffidence from the rest  of the family, Regulus had striven to emphasize the opposite. The Slytherin  colors of emerald and silver were everywhere, draping the bead, the walls, and  the windows. The Blackfamily crest was painstakingly painted over the bed,  along with its motto, TOUJOURS PUR. Beneath this was a collection of yellow  newspaper cuttings, all stuck together to make a ragged collage. Hermione  crossed the room to examine them.   “They’reall aboutVoldemort,”she said. “Regulus seemstohave beenafan  forafew years beforehe joinedthe Death Eaters... ”   A little puff of dust rose from the bedcovers as she sat down to read the  clippings. Harry, meanwhile, had noticed another photograph: a Hogwarts  Quidditch team was smiling and waving out of the frame. He moved closer  and saw the snakes emblazoned on their chests: Slytherins. Regulus was instantly  recognizable as the boy sitting in the middle of the front row: He had  the same dark hair and slightly haughty look of his brother, though he was  smaller, slighter, and rather less handsome than Sirius had been.   “He played Seeker,” said Harry.   “What?” said Hermione vaguely; she was still immersed in Voldemort’s  press clippings.   “He’ssittinginthe middleofthefrontrow,that’swherethe Seeker...Never  mind,” said Harry, realizing that nobody was listening. Ron was on his hands  and knees, searching under the wardrobe. Harry looked around the room  for likely hiding places and approached the desk. Yet again, somebody had  searched before them. The drawers’ contents had been turned over recently,  the dust disturbed, but there was nothing of value there: old quills, out-of-date  textbooks that bore evidence of being roughly handled, a recently smashed ink   
 bottle, its sticky residue covering the contents of the drawer.   “There’s an easier way,” said Hermione, as Harry wiped his inky fingers on  his jeans. She raised her wand and said, “Accio Locket!”   Nothing happened. Ron, who had been searching the folds of the faded  curtains, looked disappointed.   “Is that it, then? It’s not here?”   “Oh, it could still be here,but under counter-enchantments,” said Hermione.  “Charms to prevent it from being summoned magically, you know.”   “LikeVoldemortputonthe stone basininthecave,”saidHarry, remembering  how he had been unable to Summon the fake locket.   “How are we supposed to find it then?” asked Ron.   “We searchmanually,” said Hermione.   “That’s a good idea,” said Ron, rolling his eyes, and he resumed his examination  of the curtains.   They combed every inchof the room for more than an hour, but were forced,  finally, to conclude that the locket was not there.   The sun had risen now; its light dazzled them even through the grimy landing  windows.   “It could be somewhere else in the house, though,” said Hermione in a rallying  tone as they walked back downstairs. As Harry and Ron had become  more discouraged, she seemed to have become more determined. “Whether  he’dmanageto destroyitornot,he’d wanttokeepit hiddenfromVoldemort,  wouldn’t he? Remember all those awful things we had to get rid of when we  were here last time? That clockthat shot bolts at everyone and those old robes  that tried to strangle Ron; Regulus might have put them there to protect the  locket’shidingplace, eventhoughwe didn’t realizeitat...at... “   Harry and Ron looked at her. She was standing with one foot in midair,  with the dumbstruck look of one who had just been Obliviated: her eyes had  even drifted out of focus.   “...at the time,” she finishedina whisper.   “Something wrong?” asked Ron.   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    “There was a locket.”   “What?” said Harry and Ron together.   “In the cabinetin the drawing room. Nobody could open it. And we...we  ... “   Harry felt as though a brickhad slid down through his chest into his stomach.  He remembered. He had even handled the thing as they passed it around,  each trying in turn to pry it open. It had been tossed into a sack of rubbish,  along with the snuffbox ofWartcap powder and the music box that had made  everyone sleepy... ”   “Kreacher nicked loads of things backfrom us,” said Harry. It was the only  chance, the only slender hope left to them, and he was going to cling to it until  forced to let go. “He had a whole stash of stuff in his cupboard in the kitchen.  C’mon.”   Herandownthestairstakingtwostepsatatime,theothertwo thundering  along in his wake. They made so much noise that they woke the portrait of  Sirius’s mother as they passed through the hall.   “Filth! Mudbloods! Scum!” she screamed after them as they dashed down  into the basement kitchen and slammed the door behind them. Harry ran  the length of the room, skidded to a halt at the door of Kreacher’s cupboard,  and wrenched it open. There was the nest of dirty old blankets in which the  house-elf had once slept, but they were not longer glittering with the trinkets  Kreacher had salvaged. The only thing there was an old copy of Nature’s Nobility: AWizarding Genealogy. Refusingto believe his eyes, Harry snatchedup  the blankets and shook them.Adead mouse fell out and rolled dismally across  the floor. Ron groaned as he threw himself into a kitchen chair; Hermione  closed her eyes.   “It’snot over yet,” said Harry,and he raised his voice and called, “Kreacher!”   There was a loud crack and the house elf that Harry had so reluctantly  inherited from Sirius appeared out of nowhere in front of the cold and empty  fireplace: tiny, half human-sized, his pale skin hanging off him in folds, white  hair sprouting copiously from his batlike ears. He was still wearing the filthy   
 rag in whichthey had first met him, and the contemptuous look he bent upon  Harry showedthathis attitudetohischangeof ownershiphad alteredno more  than his outfit.   “Master,” croaked Kreacherin his bullfrog’s voice, and he bowed low; muttering  to his knees, “back in my Mistress’s old house with the blood-traitor  Weasley and the Mudblood—“   “I forbid you to call anyone ’blood traitor’ or ’Mudblood,”’ growled Harry. He  would have found Kreacher, with his snoutlike nose and bloodshot eyes, a distinctively  unlovableobject eveniftheelfhadnotbetrayed SiriustoVoldemort.   “I’ve got a question for you,” said Harry, his heart beating rather fast as he  lookeddownattheelf,“andIorderyouto answerit truthfully. Understand?”   “Yes, Master,” said Kreacher, bowing low again. Harry saw his lips moving  soundlessly, undoubtedly framing the insults he was now forbidden to utter.   “Two years ago,” said Harry, his heart now hammering against his ribs,  “therewasabiggoldlocketinthedrawing room upstairs.Wethrewitout.Did  you steal it back?”   There was a moment’s silence, during which Kreacher straightened up to  look Harry full in the face. Then he said, “Yes.”   “Where is it now?” asked Harry jubilantly as Ron and Hermione looked  gleeful. Kreacher closed his eyes as though he could not bear to see their reactions  to his next word.   “Gone.”   “Gone?” echoed Harry, elation floating out of him, “What do you mean, it’s  gone?”   The elf shivered. He swayed.   “Kreacher,” said Harry fiercely, “I order you—“   “Mundungus Fletcher,” croaked the elf, his eyes still tight shut. “Mundungus  Fletcher stole it all; Miss Bella’s and Miss Cissy’s pictures, my Mistress’s  gloves,theOrderof Merlin,FirstClass,the gobletswiththefamily crest,and—  and—“   Kreacherwas gulping for air: His hollowchestwas rising and falling rapidly,   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    then his eyes flew open and he uttered a bloodcurdling scream.   “—and the locket, Master Regulus’s locket. Kreacher did wrong, Kreacher  failed in his orders!”   Harry reacted instinctively: As Kreacher lunged for the poker standing  in the grate, he launched himself upon the elf, flattening him. Hermione’s  scream mingled with Kreacher’s but Harry bellowed louder than both of them:  “Kreacher,Iorder you to staystill!”   He felt the elf freeze and released him. Kreacher layflat on the cold stone  floor, tears gushing from his sagging eyes.   “Harry, let him up!” Hermione whispered.   “So he can beat himself up with the poker?” snorted Harry, kneeling beside  theelf.“I don’t thinkso. Right. Kreacher,I wantthe truth: Howdoyou know  Mundungus Fletcher stole the locket?”   “Kreacher saw him!” gasped the elf as tears poured over his snout and into  his mouth full of graying teeth. “Kreacher saw him coming out of Kreacher’s  cupboard with his handsfull of Kreacher’s treasures. Kreacher told the sneak  thieftostop,but Mundungus Fletcher laughedandr-ran....“   “You called the locket ’Master Regulus’s,”’ said Harry. “Why? Where did it  come from? What did Regulus have to do with it? Kreacher, sit up and tell me  everything you know about that locket, and everything Regulus had to do with  it!”   The elf satup, curled intoa ball, placed his wet face between his knees, and  began to rock backward and forward. When he spoke, his voice was muffled  but quite distinct in the silent, echoing kitchen.   “Master Sirius ran away, good riddance, for he was a bad boy and broke my  Mistress’s heart with his lawless ways. But Master Regulus had proper order;  he knew what was due to the name of Blackand the dignity of his pure blood.  ForyearshetalkedoftheDarkLord,whowasgoingtobringthe wizardsoutof  hidingto rulethe Mugglesandthe Muggle-borns ...and whenhewas sixteen  years old, Master Regulus joined the Dark Lord. So proud, so proud, so happy  to serve ...   
 And one day, a year after he joined, Master Regulus came down to the  kitchen to see Kreacher. Master Regulus always liked Kreacher. And Master  Regulus said...he said... ”   The old elf rocked faster than ever.   “...he said that the Dark Lord required an elf.”   “Voldemort needed an elf?” Harry repeated, looking around at Ron and  Hermione, who looked just as puzzled as he did.   “Oh yes,” moaned Kreacher. “And Master Regulus had volunteered Kreacher.  It was an honor, said Master Regulus, an honor for him and for Kreacher, who  mustbe suretodo whatevertheDarkLord orderedhimtodo...andthento  c-come home.” Kreacher rocked still faster, his breath coming in sobs.   “So Kreacher went to the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord did not tell Kreacher  whatthey weretodo,buttookKreacherwithhimtoacave besidethe sea.And  beyondthecavewasacavern,andinthecavernwasa greatblacklake... “   The hairs on the backof Harry’s neck stood up. Kreacher’s croaking voice  seemed to come to him from across the darkwater. He saw what had happened  as clearly as though he had been present.   “...Therewasa boat... ”   Of course there had been a boat; Harry knew the boat, ghostly green and  tiny, bewitched so as to carry one wizard and one victim toward the island in  the center. This,then,was howVoldemort had tested the defenses surrounding  the Horcrux,by borrowinga disposable creature, a house-elf ...   “There was a b-basin full of potion on the island. The D-Dark Lord made  Kreacher drink it.... ”   The elf quaked from head to foot.   “Kreacher drank, and as he drank he saw terrible thing ... Kreacher’s insides  burned...Kreacher criedfor Master Regulustosavehim,he criedforhis  Mistress Black, but the Dark Lord only laughed ...He made Kreacher drink  allthe potion...He droppedalocket intothe empty basin...He filledit with  more potion.”   “AndthentheDarkLord sailedaway,leaving Kreacheronthe island... “   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    Harry could see it happening. He watched Voldemort’s white, snakelike  face vanishing into darkness, those red eyes fixed pitilessly on the thrashing  elf whose death would occur within minutes, whenever he succumbed to the  desperate thirstthatthe burningpoison causedits victim...Buthere,Harry’s  imagination could go no further,for he could not see how Kreacher had escaped.   “Kreacher neededwater,hecrawledtotheisland’sedgeandhedrankfrom  theblacklake...andhands,deadhands, cameoutofthewateranddragged  Kreacher underthe surface... “   “How did you get away?” Harry asked, and he was not surprised to hear  himself whispering.   Kreacher raised his ugly head and looked Harry with his great, bloodshot  eyes. “Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back,” he said.   “I know—but how did you escape the Inferi?”   Kreacher did not seem to understand.   “Master Regulus told Kreacher to come back,” he repeated.   “I know, but—“   “Well, it’s obvious, isn’t it, Harry?” said Ron. “He Disapparated!”   “But...you couldn’t Apparatein and outof that cave,” said Harry, “otherwise  Dumbledore—“   “Elf magic isn’t like wizard’s magic, is it?” said Ron, “I mean, they can  Apparate and Disapparate in and out of Hogwarts when we can’t.”   TherewasasilenceasHarrydigestedthis.HowcouldVoldemorthavemade  such a mistake? But even as he thought this, Hermione spoke, and her voice  was icy.   “Of course, Voldemort would have considered the ways of house-elves far  beneath his notice ...It would never have occurred to him that they might  have magic that he didn’t.”   “The house-elf’s highest law is his Master’s bidding,” intoned Kreacher.  “Kreacherwastoldto comehome, so Kreacher came home....“   “Well, then, you did what you were told, didn’t you?” said Hermione kindly.  “You didn’t disobey orders at all!”   
 Kreacher shook his head, rocking as fast as ever.   “So what happened when you got back?” Harry asked. “What did Regulus  saywhen you told him what happened?”   “Master Regulus was very worried, very worried,” croaked Kreacher. “Master  Regulus told Kreacher to stayhidden and not to leave the house. And then  ...itwasa little while later ...Master Regulus cameto find Kreacherinhis  cupboard one night, and Master Regulus was strange, not as he usually was,  disturbedinhis mind, Kreacher could tell ...andhe asked Kreacherto take  him to the cave, the cave where Kreacher had gone with the Dark Lord.... “   And so they had set off. Harry could visualize them quite clearly, the  frightened old elf and the thin, dark Seeker who had so resembled Sirius....  Kreacher knew how to open the concealed entrance to the underground cavern,  knew how to raise the tiny boat; this time it was his beloved Regulus who  sailedwithhimtothe islandwithits basinof poison....   “And he made you drink the poison?” said Harry, disgusted.   But Kreacher shook his head and wept. Hermione’s hands leapt to her  mouth: She seemed to have understood something.   “M—Master Regulus took from his pocket a locket like the one the Dark  Lord had,” said Kreacher, tears pouring down either side of his snoutlike nose.  “And he told Kreacher to take it and, when the basin was empty, to switchthe  lockets ... ”   Kreacher’s sobs came in great rasps now; Harry had to concentrate hard to  understand him.   “And he order—Kreacher to leave—without him. And he told Kreacher—to  go home—and never to tell my Mistress—what he had done—but to destroy—  the first locket. And he drank—all the potion—and Kreacher swapped the  lockets—andwatched...as Master Regulus...was dragged beneath thewater  ...and ... “   “Oh, Kreacher!” wailed Hermione, who was crying. She dropped to her  knees besidetheelfand triedtohug him.At oncehewasonhis feet, cringing  awayfrom her, quite obviously repulsed.   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    “The Mudblood touched Kreacher, he will not allow it, what would his Mistress  say?”   “Itoldyounottocallher ’Mudblood’!” snarledHarry,buttheelfwas already  punishing himself. He fell to the ground and banged his forehead on the floor   “Stop him—stop him!” Hermione cried. “Oh, don’t you see now how sickit  is, the waythey’ve got to obey?”   “Kreacher—stop, stop!” shouted Harry.   The elf lay on the floor, panting and shivering, green mucus glistening  around his snot, a bruise already blooming on his pallid forehead where he  had struck himself, his eyes swollen and bloodshot and swimming in tears.  Harry had never seen anything so pitiful.   “So you brought the locket home,” he said relentlessly, for he was determined  to know the full story. “And you tried to destroy it?”   “Nothing Kreacher did made any mark upon it,” moaned the elf. “Kreacher  tried everything, everything he knew, but nothing, nothing would work.... So  many powerful spells upon the casing, Kreacher was sure the way to destroy  itwastoget insideit,butit wouldnotopen...Kreacher punished himself,he  tried again, he punished himself,he tried again. Kreacher failed to obey orders,  Kreacher could not destroy the locket! And his mistress was mad with grief,  because Master Regulus had disappeared and Kreacher could not tell her what  had happened, no, because Master Regulus had f-f-forbidden him to tell any of  the f-f-familywhat happenedinthe c-cave... ”   Kreacher began to sob so hard that there were no more coherent words.  Tears flowed down Hermione’s cheeks as she watched Kreacher, but she did  not dare touch him again. Even Ron, who was no fan of Kreacher’s, looked  troubled. Harry sat back on his heels and shook his head, trying to clear it.   “I don’t understand you, Kreacher,” he said finally. “Voldemort tried to kill  you, Regulus died to bringVoldemort down, but you were still happy to betray  SiriustoVoldemort?You werehappytogoto Narcissaand Bellatrix,andpass  informationtoVoldemort through them... “   “Harry, Kreacher doesn’t think like that,” said Hermione, wiping her eyes   
 on the backof her hand. “He’s a slave; house-elves are used to bad, even brutal  treatment;whatVoldemortdidtoKreacherwasn’tthatfaroutofthe common  way. What do wizard wars mean to an elf like Kreacher? He’s loyal to people  who are kind to him, and Mrs. Black must have been, and Regulus certainly  was,sohe served them willinglyand parroted their beliefs.Iknow what you’re  going to say,” she went on as Harry began to protest, “that Regulus changed  his mind...buthe doesn’t seemtohave explained thatto Kreacher, does he?”  AndIthinkIknow why. Kreacher and Regulus’s family were all safest if they  kept to the old pure-blood line. Regulus was trying to protect them all.”   “Sirius—“   “Sirius was horrible to Kreacher, Harry, and it’s no good looking like that,  you know it’s true. Kreacher had been alone for such a long time when Sirius  came to live here, and he was probably starving for a bit of affection. I’m sure  ’Miss Cissy’ and ’Miss Bella’ were perfectly lovely to Kreacher when he turned  up, so he did them a favor and told them everything they wanted to know. I’ve  said all along that wizards would pay for how they treat house-elves. Well,  Voldemortdid...andsodid Sirius.”   Harry had no retort. As he watched Kreacher sobbing on the floor, he remembered  what Dumbledore had said to him, mere hours after Sirius’s death:  I do not think Sirius ever saw Kreacher as a being with feelings as acute as a  human’s. . . .   “Kreacher,” said Harry aftera while, “whenyou feeluptoit, er.... please  sit up.”   It was several minutes before Kreacher hiccuped himself into silence. Then  he pushed himself into a sitting position again, rubbing his knuckles into his  eyes like a small child.   “Kreacher,I am going to ask you to do something,” said Harry. He glanced  at Hermionefor assistance.Hewantedtogivethe order kindly,butatthe same  time, he could not pretend that it was not an order. However, the change in his  tone seemed to have gained her approval: She smiled encouragingly.   “Kreacher,I wantyou,please,togoandfind Mundungus Fletcher.Weneed   
 CHAPTER  10.  KREACHER’S  TALE    to find out where the locket—where Master Regulus’s locket it. It’s really important. Wewantto finishthework Master Regulus started,wewant to—er—  ensure that he didn’t die in vain.”   Kreacher dropped his fists and looked up at Harry.   “Find Mundungus Fletcher?” he croaked.   Andbring him here, to Grimmauld Place,” said Harry. “Do you think you  could do that for us?”   AsKreachernoddedandgottohisfeet,Harryhadasudden inspiration.He  pulled out Hagrid’s purse and took out the fake Horcrux, the substitute locket  in whichRegulus had placed the note toVoldemort.   “Kreacher, I’d, er, like you to have this,” he said, pressing the locket into the  elf’s hand. “This belongedto RegulusandI’m surehe’d wantyoutohaveitas  a token of gratitude for what you—“   “Overkill, mate,” said Ron as the elf took one look at the locket, let out a  howl of shockand misery, and threw himself backonto the ground.   It took them nearly half an hour to calm down Kreacher, who was so overcometobe  presentedwithaBlackfamily heirloomforhisveryownthathewas  too weak at the knees to stand properly. When finally he was able to totter a  few steps they all accompanied him to his cupboard, watched him tuckup the  locket safely in his dirty blankets, and assured him that they would make its  protection their first priority while he was away. He then made two low bows  to Harry and Ron, and even gave a funny little spasm in Hermione’s direction  that might have been an attempt at a respectful salute, before Disapparating  with the usual loud crack.   
 Chapter  11    The  Bribe    I I fKreacher could escape a lake full of Inferi, Harry was confident that  the capture of Mundungus would take a few hours at most, and he  prowled the house all morning in a state of high anticipation. However,  Kreacher did not return that morning or even that afternoon. By nightfall,  Harry felt discouraged and anxious, an da supper composed largely of moldy  bread, upon whichHermione had tried a variety of unsuccessful Transfigurations,  did nothing to help.   Kreacher did not return the following day, nor the dayafter that. However,  two cloaked men had appeared in the square outside number twelve, and they  remained there into the night, gazing in the direction of the house that they  cannot see.   “Death Eaters, for sure,” said Ron, as he, Harry, and Hermione watched  from the drawing room windows. “Reckon they know we’re in here?”   “I don’t think so,” said Hermione, though she looked frightened, “or they’d  have sent Snape in after us, wouldn’t they?”   “D’you reckon he’s beenin here and had his tongue tiedbyMoody’s curse?”  asked Ron.   “Yes,” said Hermione, “otherwise he’dhave been able to tell that lot how to  get in, wouldn’t he? But they’re probably watching to see whether we turn up.   175   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    They know that Harry owns the house, after all.”   “How do they—?” began Harry.   “Wizarding wills are examined by the Ministry, remember? They’ll know  Sirius left you the place.”   The presence of the Death Eaters outside increased the ominous mood inside  number twelves. They had not heard a word from anyone beyond Grimmauld  Place sinceMr.Weasley’sPatronus,andthe strainwas startingto tell.  Restless and irritable, Ron had developed an annoying habit of playing with  the Deluminator in his pocket. This particularly infuriated Hermione, who  was whiling away the wait for Kreacher by studying The Tales of Beedle the  Bard and did not appreciate the waythe lights kept flashing on and off.   “Will you stop it!” she cried out on the third evening of Kreacher’s absence,  as all light was sucked from the drawing room yet again.   “Sorry, sorry!” said Ron, clicking the Deluminator and restoring the lights.  “I don’t know I’m doing it!”   “Well, can’t you find something useful to occupy yourself?”   “What, like reading kids’ stories?”   “Dumbledore left me this book, Ron—”   “—and he left me the Deluminator, maybe I’m supposed to use it!”   Unable to stand the bickering, Harry slipped out of the room unnoticed by  either of them. He headed downstairs toward the kitchen, whichhe kept visiting  because he was sure that was where Kreacher was most likely to reappear.  Halfwaydown the flight of stairs into the hall, however, he heard a tap on the  front door, then metallic clicks and the grinding of the chain.   Every nerve in his body seemed to tauten: He pulled out his wand, moved  into the shadows beside the decapitated elf heads,andwaited. The door opened:  Hesawaglimpseofthelamplitsquare outside,andacloakedfigureedgedinto  the hall and closed the door behind it. The intruder took a step forward, and  Moody’s voice asked, “Severus Snape?” Then the dust figure rose from the end  of the hall, and rushed him, raising its dead hand.   “Itwas notIwho killed you, Albus,” saida quiet voice.   
 The jinx broke: The dust-figure exploded again, and it was impossible to  make out the newcomer through the dense gray cloud it left behind.   Harry pointed his wand into the middle of it.   “Don’t move!”   He had forgotten the portrait of Mrs. Black. At the sound of his yell, the  curtains hiding her flew open and she began to scream, “Mudbloods and filth  dishonoring my house—”   Ron and Hermione came crashing down the stairs behind Harry, wands  pointing, like his, at the unknown man now standing with his arms raised in  the hill below.   “Hold your fire, it’s me, Remus!”   “Oh, thank goodness,” said Hermione weakly, pointing her wand at Mrs.  Black instead; with a bang, the curtains swished shut again and silence fell.  Ron too lowered his wand, but Harry did not.   “Show yourself!” he called back.   Lupin moved forward into the lamplight, hands still held high in a gesture  of surrender.   “I am RemusJohn Lupin, werewolf, sometimes known as Moony, oneof the  four creators of the Marauder’s Map, married to Nymphadora, usually known  asTonks,andItaughtyouhowto produceaPatronus,Harry,whichtakesthe  form of a stag.”   “Oh,allright.”saidHarry, loweringhiswand,“butIhadtocheck, didn’tI?”   “Speaking as your ex-Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher,I quit agree  that you had to check. Ron, Hermione, you shouldn’t be quite so quickto lower  your defenses.”   They ran down the stairs toward him. Wrappedi a thick black traveling  cloak, he looked exhausted, but pleased to see them.   “No sign of Severus then?” he asked.   “No,” said Harry, “What’s going on? Is everyone okay?”   “Yes,” said Lupin, “but we’re all being watched. There are a couple of Death  Eaters in the square outside—”   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    “We know—”   “I had to Apparate very precisely onto the top step outside the front door to  be sure that they would not see me. They can’t know you’re in here or I’m sure  they’d have more people out there; they’re staking out everywhere that’s got  any connection with you, Harry. Let’s go downstairs, there’s a lot to tell you,  andI wanttoknow what’s happened afteryouleftthe Burrow.”   They descended into the kitchen, where Hermione pointed her wand at the  gate. A fire sprang up instantly. It gave the illusion of coziness to the stark  stone walls and glistened off the long wooden table. Lupin pulled a few butter- beers from beneath his traveling cloak and they sat down.   “I’dhave been here threedaysagobutIneededto shakeoffthe Death Eater  tailing me,” said Lupin. “So, you came straight here after the wedding?”   “No,” said Harry, “only after we ran into a couple of Death Eaters in a cafe´ onTottenham Court Road.”   Lupin slopped most of his butterbeer down his front.   “What?”   They explained what had happened; when they had finished, Lupin looked  aghast.   “But how did they find you so quickly? It’s impossible to trackanyone who  Apparates, unless you grab hold of them as they disappear.”   “And it doesn’t seem likely they were just strolling downTottenham Court  Road at the time, does it?” said Harry.   “We wondered,” said Hermione tentatively, “whether Harry could still have  the Trace on him?”   “Impossible,” said Lupin. Ron looked smug, and Harry felt hugely relieved.  “Apart from anything else, they’dknow for sure Harry was here if he still had  the Trace on him, wouldn’t they? ButIcan’t see how they could have tracked  you toTottenham Court Road, that’s worrying, really worrying.”   He looked disturbed, but as far as Harrywas concerned, that question could  wait.   “Tell us what happened after we left, we haven’t heard a thing since Ron’s   
 dad told us the family were safe.”   “Well, Kingsley saved us,” said Lupin. “Thanks to his warning most of the  wedding guests were able to Disapparate before they arrived.”   “Were they Death Eaters or Ministry people?” interjected Hermione.   “A mixture; but to all intents and purposes they’re the same thing now,”  said Lupin. “There were about a dozen of them, but they didn’t know you were  there,Harry. Arthurheardarumorthattheytriedto tortureyour whereabouts  out of Scrimgeour before they killed him; if it’s true, he didn’t give you away.”   Harry looked at Ron and Hermione; their expressions reflected the mingled  shockand gratitude he felt. He had never liked Scrimgeour much, but if what  Lupin said was true, the man’s final act had been to try to protect Harry.   “The Death Eaters searched the Burrow from top to bottom,” Lupin went on.  “They found the ghoul, but didn’t want to get to close—and then they interrogated  those of us who remained for hours. They were trying to get information  on you, Harry, but of course nobody apart from the Order knew that you had  been there.   “At the same time that they were smashing up the wedding, more Death  Eaters were forcing theirwayinto every Order-connected housein the country.  No deaths,” he added quickly, forstalling the question, “but they were rough.  They burned down Dedalus Diggle’s house, but as you know he wasn’t there,  and they used the Cruciatus Curse onTonks’s family. Again, trying to find out  where you went after you visited them. They’re all right—shaken, obviously,  but otherwise okay.”   “The Death Eaters got through all those protective charms?” Harry asked,  remembering how effective those had been on the night he had crashed in  Tonks’s parents’ garden.   “What you’ve got to realize, Harry,is that the Death Eaters have got the full  might of the Ministry on their side now,” said Lupin. “They’ve got the power to  perform brutal spells without fear of identification or arrest. They managed to  penetrate every defensive spell we’d cast against them, and onceinside, they  were completely open about why they’d come.”   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    “And are they bothering an excuse for torturing Harry’s whereabouts out of  people?” asked Hermione, an edge to her voice.   “Well,” said Lupin. He hesitated, then pulled out a folded copy of the Daily  Prophet.   “Here,” he said, pushing it across the table to Harry, “you’ll know sooner or  later anyway. That’s their pretext for going after you.”   Harry smoothed out the paper.Ahuge photographof his own face filled the  front page. He read the headline over it:   WANTED  FOR  QUESTIONING  ABOUT  THE  DEATH  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    Ron and Hermione gave roars of outrage, but Harry said nothing. He  pushed the newspaper away; he did not want to read any more: He knew what  it would say. Nobody but those who had been on top of the tower when Dumbledore  died knew who had really killed him and, as Rita Skeeter had already told  the wizarding world, Harry had been seen running from the place moments after  Dumbledore had fallen.   “I’m sorry, Harry,” Lupin said.   “So Death Eaters have taken over the DailyProphet too?” asked Hermione  furiously.   Lupin nodded.   “But surely people realize what’s going on?”   “The coup has been smooth and virtually silent,” said Lupin.   “The official version of Scrimgeour’s murder is that he resigned; he has been  replaced by Pius Thicknesse, who is under the Imperius Curse.”   “Why didn’tVoldemort declare himself Minister of Magic?” asked Ron.   Lupin laughed.   “He doesn’t need to, Ron. Effectively heis the Minister, but why should  he sit behind a desk at the Ministry? His puppet, Thicknesse, is taking care  of everyday business, leavingVoldemort free to extend his power beyond the  ministry.   
 “Naturally many people have deduced what has happened: There has been  such a dramatic change in Ministry policy in the last few days, and many are  whispering thatVoldemort must be behind it. However, that is not the point:  They whisper. They daren’t confide in eachother, not knowing whom to trust;  they are scared to speak out, in case their suspicions are true and their families  are targeted.Yes,Voldemortisplayinga veryclever game. Declaring himself  might have provoked open rebellion: Remaining masked has created confusion,  uncertainty, and fear.”   “Andthis dramaticchangein Ministrypolicy,”saidHarry,“involveswarning  theWizarding world against me insteadofVoldemort?”   “That’s certainly part of it,” said Lupin, “and it is a masterstroke. Now that  Dumbledore is dead, you—the Boy Who Lived—were sure to be the symbol and  rallyingpointforany resistancetoVoldemort.Butby suggestingthatyouhad  a handin the old hero’s death,Voldemort has not only seta price upon your  head, but sown doubt and fear amongst many who would have defended you.   “Meanwhile, the Ministry has started moving against Muggleborns.”   Lupin pointed at the DailyProphet.   “Look at page two.”   Hermione turned the pages with muchthe same expression of distaste she  had worn when handling Secrets of the Darkest Art.   “‘Muggle-born Register,”’ she read aloud, “‘The Ministry of Magic is undertaking  a survey of so-called “Muggle-borns,” the better to understand how they  came to possess magical secrets.   “‘Recent research undertaken by the Department of Mysteries reveals that  magic canonlybe passedfrompersontopersonwhenWizardsreproduce.Where  no proven Wizarding ancestry exists, therefore, the so-called Muggle-born is  likelyto have obtained magical powerby theftorforce.   “‘The Ministry is determined to root out suchusurpers of magical power, and  to this end has issued an invitation to every so-called Muggle-born to present  themselvesfor interviewbythe newlyappointed Muggle-born Registration Commission.”’    
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    “People won’t let this happen,” said Ron.   “It is happening, Ron,’; said Lupin. “Muggle-borns are being rounded up as  we speak.”   “But how are they supposed to have ’stolen’ magic?” said Ron. “It’s mental,  if you could steal magic there wouldn’t be any Squibs, would there?”   “I know,” said Lupin. “Nevertheless, unless you can prove that you have at  least onecloseWizarding relative,you are now deemedtohave obtainedyour  magical power illegally and must suffer the punishment.”   Ron glanced at Hermione, then said, “What if purebloods and half-bloods  swear a Muggle-born’s part of their family? I’ll tell everyone Hermione’s my  cousin—”   Hermione covered Ron’s hand with hers and squeezed it.   “Thank you, Ron, butIcouldn’t let you—”   “You won’t have a choice,” said Ron fiercely, gripping her hand back. “I’ll  teachyou my family tree so you can answer questions on it.”   Hermione gave a shaky laugh.   “Ron, as we’re on the run with Harry Potter, the most wanted person in  the country,Idon’t thinkit matters.IfI wasgoingback toschoolit wouldbe  different. What’sVoldemort planning for Hogwarts?” she asked Lupin.   “Attendance is now compulsory for every young witchand wizard,” he replied.  “That was announced yesterday. It’s a change, because it was never obligatory  before. Of course, nearly every witch and wizard in Britain has been educated  at Hogwarts, but their parents had the right to teach them at home  or send them abroad if they preferred. This way, Voldemort will have the  wholeWizarding population under his eye fro ma young age. And it’s also another  wayof weeding out Muggle-borns, because students must be given Blood  Status—meaning that they have proven to the ministry that they are of wizard  descent—before they are allowed to attend.”   Harry felt sickened and angry: At this moment, excited eleven-year-olds  would be poring over stacks of newly purchased spellbooks, unaware that they  would never see Hogwarts, perhaps never see their families again either.   
 “It’s ...it’s ... ”he muttered, strugglingtofindwordsthatdidjusticetothe  horror of his thoughts, but Lupin said quietly,   “I know.”   Lupin hesitated.   “I’ll understand if you can’t confirm this, Harry, but the Order is under the  impression that Dumbledore left you a mission.”   “He did,” Harry replied, “and Ron and Hermione are in on it and they’re  coming with me.”   “Can you confide in me what the mission is?”   Harry looked into the prematurely lined face, framed in thickbut graying  hair, and wished that he could return a different answer.   “I can’t, Remus, I’m sorry. If Dumbledore didn’t tell youIdon’t thinkI can.”   “I thought you’d saythat,” said Lupin, looking disappointed. “ButIought  still be of some use to you. You know whatI am and whatI can do. I could  come with you to provide protection. There would be no need to tell me exactly  what you were up to.”   Harry hesitated. It was a very tempting offer, though how they would be  able to keep their mission secret from Lupin if he were with them all the time  he could not imagine.   Hermione, however, looked puzzled.   “But what aboutTonks?” she asked.   “What about her?” said Lupin.   “Well,” said Hermione, frowning, “you’re married: How does she feel about  you going awaywith us?”   “Tonks will be perfectly safe.” said Lupin. “She’ll be at her parents’ house.”   There was something strange in Lupin’s tone; it was almost cold. There  was also something odd in the idea ofTonks remaining hidden at her parents  house; she was, after all, a member of the Order and, as far as Harry knew,  was likely to want to be in the thickof the action.   “Remus,” said Hermione tentatively, “is everything all right ...you know  ... between you and—”   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    “Everything is fine, thank you,” said Lupin pointedly.   Hermione turned pink. There was another pause, an awkward and embarrassed  one, and then Lupin said, with an air of forcing himself to admit  something unpleasant. “Tonks is going to have a baby.”   “Oh, how wonderful!” squealed Hermione.   “Excellent!” said Ron enthusiastically.   “Congratulations,” said Harry.   Lupin gave an artificial smile that was more like a grimace, then said, “So  ...do you acceptmy offer?Will three become four?Icannot believe that Dumbledore  would have disapproved, he appointed my your Defense Against the  Dark Arts teacher, after all. And I must tell you that I believe that we are  facing magic many of us have never encountered or imagined.”   Ron and Hermione both looked at Harry.   “Just—justtobeclear,” he said. “YouwanttoleaveTonksather parents’  house and come awaywith us?”   “She’ll be perfectly safe there, they’ll look after her,” said Lupin. He spoke  witha finalitybordering on indifference. “Harry, I’m sureJames wouldhave  wanted me to stickwith you.”   “Well,” said Harry slowly, “I’m not. I’m pretty sure my father would have  wanted to know why you aren’t sticking with your own kid, actually.”   Lupin’s face drained of color. The temperature in the kitchen might have  dropped ten degrees. Ron stared around the room as though he had been bidden  to memorize it, while Hermione’s eyes swiveled backward and forward  from Harry to Lupin.   “You don’t understand,” said Lupin at last.   “Explain, then,” said Harry.   Lupin swallowed.   “I-I made a grave mistake in marrying Tonks. I did it against my better  judgment andIhave regrettedit very much ever since.”   “I see,” said Harry, “so you’re just going to dump herand the kid and run off  with us?”   
 185   Lupin sprangtohis feet: Hischair toppledbackward,andhe glaredat them  so fiercely that Harry saw, for the first time ever, the shadow of the wolf upon  his human face.   “Don’t you understand what I’ve done to my wife and my unborn child? I  should never have married her, I’ve made her an outcast!”   Lupin kicked aside the chair he had overturned.   “You have only seen me amongst the Order, or under Dumbledore’s protection  at Hogwarts! You don’t know how most of the Wizarding world sees  creatures like me! When they know of my affliction, they can barely talk to  me! Don’t you see what I’ve done? Even her own family is disgusted by our  marriage, when parents want their only daughter to marry a werewolf? And  the child—the child—”   Lupin actually seized handfuls of his own hair; he looked quite deranged.   “My kind don’t usually breed! It will be like me,I am convinced of it—how  canIforgive myself whenIknowingly risked passing on my own condition to  an innocent child? And if, by some miracle, it is not like me, then it will be  better off, a hundred times so, without a father of whom it must always be  ashamed!”   “Remus!” whispered Hermione, tears in her eyes. “Don’t say that—how  could any child be ashamed of you?”   “Oh,Idon’t know, Hermione,” said Harry. “I’dbe pretty ashamedof him.”   Harry did not know where his rage was coming from, but it had propelled  him to his feet too. Lupin looked as though Harry had hit him.   “If the new regime thinks Muggle-borns are bad,” Harry said, “what will  they do to a half-werewolf whose father’s in the Order? My father died trying  to protect my mother and me, and you reckon he’dtell you to abandon your kid  to go on an adventure with us?”   “How—how dare you?” said Lupin. “This is not about a desire for—for  danger of personal glory—how dare you suggest sucha—”   “I think you’re feeling a bit of a daredevil.” Harry said, “You fancy stepping  into Sirius’s shoe—”   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    “Harry, no!” Hermione begged him, but he continued to glare into Lupin’s  livid face.   “I’d never have believed this,” Harry said. “The man who taught me to fight  dementors—a coward.”   Lupin drew his wand so fast that Harry had barely reached for his own;  there was a loud bang and he felt himself flying backward as if punched; as  he slammed into the kitchen wall and slid to the floor, he glimpsed the tail of  Lupin’s cloak disappearing around the door.   “Remus, Remus, come back!” Hermione cried, but Lupin did not respond.A  moment later they heard the front door slam.   “Harry!” wailed Hermione. “How could you?”   “It was easy,” said Harry. He stood up; he could feel a lump swelling where  his head had hit the wall. He was still so full of anger he was shaking.   “Don’t look at me like that!” he snapped at Hermione.   “Don’t you start on her!” snarked Ron.   “No—no—we mustn’t fight!” said Hermione, launching herself between  them.   “You shouldn’t have said that stuff to Lupin,” Ron told Harry.   “He had it coming to him,” said Harry. Broken images were racing each  other through his mind: Sirius falling through the veil; Dumbledore suspended,  broken, in midair; a flash of green light and his mother’s voice, begging for  mercy ...   “Parents,” said Harry, “shouldn’t leave their kids unless—unless they’ve got  to.”   “Harry—” said Hermione, stretching out a consoling hand, but he shrugged  it off and walked away, his eyes on the fire Hermione had conjured. He had  once spoken to Lupin out of that fireplace, seeking reassurance aboutJames,  and Lupin had consoled him. Now Lupin’s tortured white face seemed to swim  in the air before him. He felt a sickening surge of remorse. Neither Ron nor  Hermione spoke, but Harry felt sure that they were looking at eachother behind  his back, communicating silently.   
 He turned around and caught them turning hurriedlyawayfrom eachother.   “I knowIshouldn’thave called hima coward.”   “No, you shouldn’t,” said Ron at once.   “But he’s acting like one.”   “Allthe same... ” said Hermione.   “Iknow,”saidHarry. “butifitmakeshimgobacktoTonks, it’llbe worthit,  won’t it?”   He could not keep the plea out of his voice. Hermione looked sympathetic,  Ron uncertain. Harry looked down at his feet, thinking of his father. would  James have backed Harry in what he had said to Lupin, or would he have been  angry at how his son had treated his old friend?   The silent kitchen seemed to hum with the shock of the recent scene and  with Ron and Hermione’s unspoken reproaches. The DailyProphet Lupin had  brought was still lying on the table, Harry’s own face staring up at the ceiling  from the front page. He walked over to it and sat down, opened the paper at  random, and pretended to read. He could not take in the words, his mind was  still full of the encounter with Lupin. He was sure that Ron and Hermione  had resumed their silent communications on the other side of the Prophet. He  turned a page loudly, and Dumbledore’s name leapt out at him. It was a moment  or two before he took in the meaning of the photograph, whichshowed a  family group. Beneath the photograph were the words: The Dumbledore family,  left to right: Albus;Percival, holding newborn Ariana; Kendra; and Aberforth.   His attention caught, Harry examined the picture more carefully. Dumbledore’s  father,Percival,wasa good-looking man with eyes that seemedto twinkle  even in this faded old photograph. The baby, Ariana, was little longer than  a loaf of bread and no more distinctive-looking. The mother,Kendra, had jet  blackhair pulled intoahigh bun. Her face hadacarved quality about it. Harry  thought of photos of Native Americans he’d see as he studied her dark eyes,  high cheekbones, and straight nose, formally composed above a high-necked  silk gown. Albus and Aberforth were matching lacy collared jackets and had  identical, shoulder-length hairstyles. Albus looked several years older, but oth   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    erwise the two boys looked very alike, for thiswas before Albus’s nose had been   broken and before he started wearing glasses.  Thinking that it could hardly make him feel any worse than he already did,   Harry began to read:   Proud and haughty, Kendra Dumbledore could not bear to remainin  Mould-on-the-Wold afterher husbandPercival’swell-publicized  arrest and imprisonment in Azkaban. She therefore decided to uproot  the family and relocate to Godric’s Hollow, the village that was  latertogainfameasthe sceneofHarryPotter’s strange escapefrom  You-Know-Who.   Like Mould-on-the-Wold, Godric’s Hollow was home to a number  ofWizarding families, but asKendra knew noneof them, she would  be spared the curiosity about her husband’s crime she had faced in  her former village. By repeatedly rebuffing the friendly advances of  her newWizarding neighbors, she soon ensured that her familywas  left well alone.   “Slammed the door in my face whenI went around to welcome  herwithabatchof homemade CauldronCakes,”says BathildaBagshot.  “The first year they wre thereIonly ever sawthe two boys.Wouldn’t  have known therewasa daughterifIhadn’t beenpicking Plangentinesby  moonlightthe winter afterthey movedin,andsawKendra  leading Arianaoutintothebackgarden.Walkedherroundthelawn  once, keeping a firm grip on her, then took her backinside. Didn’t  know what to make of it.”   It seems thatKendra thought the move to Godric’s Hollowwas  the perfect opportunity to hide Ariana once and for all, something  she had probably been planning for years. The timing was significant.  Ariana was barely seven years old when she vanished from  sight, and seven is the age by whichmost experts agree that magic  will have revealed itself, if present. Nobody now alive remembers   
 Ariana ever demonstrating even the slightest sign of magical ability.  It seemsclear, therefore, thatKendra madea decision to hide  her daughter’s existence rather than suffer the shame of admitting  that she had produced a Squib. Moving awayfrom the friends and  neighbors who knew Ariana would, of course, make imprisoning her  all the easier. The tiny number of people who henceforth knew of Ariana’s  existence could be counted upon to keep the secret, including  her two brothers, who deflectedawkward questions with the answer  their mother had taught them: “My sister is too frail for school.”   Next week: Albus Dumbledore at Hogwarts—the Prizes and the  Pretense.   Harry had been wrong: What he had read had indeed made him worse.  He lookedbackatthe photographofthe apparentlyhappyfamily.Wasit true?  Howcouldhefindout?HewantedtogotoGodric’sHollow,evenif Bathildawas  innofitstatetotalktohim;hewantedtovisittheplacewhereheand Dumbledorehad  both lost loved ones.Hewasinthe processofloweringthe newspaper,  to ask Ron’s and Hermione’s opinions, when a deafening crack echoed around  the kitchen.   For the first time in three days Harry had forgotten all about Kreacher. His  immediate thoughtwas that Lupin had burst backinto the room, and forasplit  second, he did not take in the mass of struggling limbs that had appeared out of  thin air right beside his chair. He hurried to his feat as Kreacher disentangled  himself and, bowing low to Harry, croaked, “Kreacher has returned with the  thief Mundungus Fletcher, Master.”   Mundungus scrambled up and pulled out his wand; Hermione, however,  was too quickfor him.   “Expelliarmus!”   Mundungus’swand soared into the air, and Hermione caught it.Wild-eyed,  Mundungus dived for the stairs: Ron rugby–tackled him, and Mundungus hit  the stone floor with a muffled crunch.   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    “What?” he bellowed, writhing in his attempts to free himself from Ron’s  grip. “Wha’veIdone? Settinga bleedin’ ’ouse-elfonme, what areyouplaying  at, wha’veIdone, lemmego, lemmego, or—”   “You’re not in much of a position to make threats,” said Harry. He threw  aside the newspaper, crossed the kitchen in a few strides, and dropped to his  knees beside Mundungus,who stopped struggling and looked terrified. Ron got  up, panting, and watched as Harry pointed his wand deliberately at Mundungus’s  nose. Mundungus stank of stale sweat and tobacco smoke. His hair was  matted and his robes stained.   “Kreacher apologizes for the delay in bringing the thief, Master,” croaked  the elf. “Fletcher knows how to avoid capture, has many hidey-holes and accomplices.  Nevertheless, Kreacher cornered the thief in the end.”   “You’ve done really well, Kreacher,” said Harry, and the elf bowed low.   “Right, we’ve got a few questions for you,” Harry told Mundungus, who  shouted at once.   “I panicked, okay?I neverwantedto come along, no offense, mate, butI  never volunteered to die for you, an’ that was bleedin’ You-Know-Who come  flyingatme, anyone wouldagotouttathere,IsaidallalongIdidn’twannado  it—”   “For your information, none of the rest of us Disapparated,” said Hermione.   “Well, you’re a bunch of bleeidin’ ’eroes then, aren’t you, but I never pretendedI  wasup for killing myself—”   “We’re not interested in why you ran out on Mad-eye,” said Harry, moving  his wand a little closer to Mundungus’s baggy, bloodshot eyes. “We already  knew you were an unreliable bit of scum.”   “Wellthen,whythe’ellamIbeing ’unteddownby ’ouse-elves? Oristhis  aboutthemgobletagain?Iain’tgot noneof’emleft,oryoucould’ave’em—”   “It’s not about the goblets either, although you’re getting warmer,” said  Harry. “Shut up and listen.”   It felt wonderful to have something to do, someone of whom he could demand  somesmall portionof truth. Harry’swandwasnowsoclosetothebridge   
 of Mundungus’s nose that Mundungus had gone cross-eyed trying to keep it in  view.   “When you cleaned out his house of anything valuable,” Harry began, but  Mundungus interrupted him again.   “Sirius never cared about any of the junk—”   There was the sound of pattering feet, a blaze of shining copper, an echoing  clang, and a shriek of agony; Kreacher had taken a run at Mundungus and hit  him over the head with a saucepan.   “Call ’im off, call ’im off, ’e should be locked up!” screamed Mundungus,  cowering as Kreacher raised the heavy-bottomed pan again.   “Kreacher, no!” shouted Harry.   Kreacher’s thin arms trembled with the weight of the pan, still held aloft.   “Perhaps just one more, Master Harry, for luck?”   Ron laughed.   “We need him conscious, Kreacher, but if he needs persuading, you can do  the honors,” said Harry.   “Thankyouverymuch,Master,”saidKreacherwithabow,andhe retreated  a short distance, his great pale eyes still fixed upon Mundungus with loathing.   “When you stripped this house of all the valuables you could find,” Harry  began again, “you took a bunchof stuff from the kitchen cupboard. There was  a locket there.” Harry’s mouth was suddenly dry. He could sense Ron and  Hermione’s tensions and excitement too. “What did you do with it?”   “Why?” asked Mundungus, “Is it valuable?”   “You’ve still got it!” cried Hermione.   “No, he hasn’t,” said Ron shrewdly. “He’s wondering whether he shoulder  have asked more money for it.”   “More?” said Mundungus,“that wouldn’thave been effing difficult... bleedin’  gave it away, di’n’ I? No choice.”   “What do you mean?”   “I was selling in Diagon Alley, and she come up to me and asks if I’ve got a  license for trading in magical artifacts. Bleedin’ snoop. She was gonna fine me,   
 CHAPTER  11.  THE  BRIBE    but she took a fancy to the locket an’ told me she’dtake it and let me off this   time, and to fink meself lucky.”   “Who was this woman?” asked Harry.   “I dunno, some Ministry hag.”   Mundungus considered for a moment, brow wrinkled.   “Little woman. Bow on top of her head.”   He frowned, then added, “Looked like a toad.”   Harry dropped hiswand: It hit Mundungus on the nose and shot red sparks  into his eyebrows, whichignited.   “Aguamenti!” screamed Hermione, and a jet of water streamed from her  wand, engulfing a spluttering and choking Mundungus.   Harry looked up and saw his own shockreflected in Ron’s and Hermione’s  faces. The scars on the backof his right hand seemed to be tingling again.   
 Chapter  12    Magic  is  Might    A A s August wore on, the square of unkempt grass in the middle of  Grimmauld Place shriveled in the sun until it was brittle and  brown. The inhabitants of number twelves were never seen by  anybody in the surrounding houses,and nor was the number twelve itself. The  Muggles who lived in Grimmauld Place had long since accepted the amusing  mistake in the numbering that had caused number eleven to sit beside number  thirteen.   And yet the square was now attracting a trickle of visitors who seemed to  find the anomaly most intriguing. Barely a day passed without one or two  people arriving in Grimmauld Place with no other purpose, or so it seemed,  than to lean against the railing facing numbers eleven and thirteen, watching  the join between the two houses. Thelurkers were never the same two days  running, although they all seemed to share a dislike for normal clothing. Most  of the Londoners who passed them were used to eccentric dressers and took  little notice, though occasionally one of them might glance back, wondering  why anyone would wear suchlong cloaks in the heat.   The watchers seemed to be gleaning little satisfaction from their vigil. Occasionally  one of them started forward excitedly, as if they had seen something  interesting at last, only to fall backlooking disappointed.   193   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    On the first dayof September there were more people lurking in the square  than ever before. Half a dozen men in long cloaks stood silent and watchful,  gazing as ever at houses eleven and thirteen, but the thing for which they  were waiting still appeared elusive. As evening drew in, bringing with it an  unexpected gust of chilly rain, for the first time in weeks, there occurred one  oft hose inexplicable moments when they appeared to have seen something  interesting. The man with the twisted face pointed and his closest companion,  a podgy pallid man, started forward, but a moment later they had relaxed into  their previous state of inactivity, looking frustrated and disappointed.   Meanwhile, inside number twelve, Harry had just entered the Harry had  just entered the hall. He had nearly lost his balance as he Apparated onto the  top step just outside the front door, and thought that the Death Eaters might  have caught a glimpse of his momentarily exposed elbow. Shutting the front  door carefully behind him, he pulled off the Invisibility Cloak, draped it over  his arm, and hurried along the gloomy hallwaytoward the door that led to the  basement, a stolen copy of the DailyProphet clutched in his hand.   The usual low whisper of “Severus Snape” greeted him, thechill wind swept  him, and his tongue rolled up for a moment.   “I didn’t kill you,” he said, once it had unrolled, then held his breath as the  dusty jinx-figure exploded. He waited until he was halfway down the stairs  intothekitchen,outof earshotofMrs. Blackandclearofthedustcloud, before  calling, “I’ve got news, and you won’t like it.”   The kitchen was almost unrecognizable. Every surface now shone; Copper  potsandpanshadbeen burnishedtoarosyglow;the wooden tabletop gleamed;  the goblets and plates already laid for dinner glinted in the light from a merrily  blazing fire, on which a cauldron was simmering. Nothing in the room,  however, was more dramatically different than the house-elf who now came  hurrying toward Harry, dressed in a snowy-white towel, his ear hair as clean  and fluffy as cotton wool, Regulus’s locket bouncing on his thin chest.   “Shoes off, if you please, Master Harry, and hands washed before dinner,”  croaked Kreacher, seizing the Invisibility Cloak and slouching off to hang it   
 195   on a hook on the wall, beside a number of old-fashioned robes that had been  freshly laundered.   “What’s happened?” Ron asked apprehensively. He and Hermione had been  poring over a sheaf of scribbled notes and hand, drawn maps that littered the  end of the long kitchen table, but now they watched Harry as he strode toward  them and threw down the newspaper on top of their scattered parchment.   A large picture of a familiar, hook-nosed, black-haired man stared up at  them all, beneath a headline that read:   SEVERUS  SNAPE  CONFIRMED  AS  HOGWARTS  HEADMASTER    “No!” said Ron and Hermione loudly.   Hermione was quickest; she snatched up the newspaper and began to read  the accompanying story out loud.   “‘Severus Snape,long-standingPotions masterat HogwartsSchoolofWitchcraft  andWizardry,wastoday appointed headmasterinthe most importantof several  staffingchangesatthe ancientschool.Followingthe resignationofthe previous  Muggle Studies teacher, Alecto Carrows will will take over the post while her  brother, Amycus, fills the position of Defense Against the DarkArts professor.   “‘I welcome the opportunity to uphold our finest Wizarding traditions and  values—’ Like committing murder and cutting off people’s ears, I suppose!  Snape,headmaster! Snape in Dumbledore’sstudy—Merlin’spants!” she shrieked,  making both Harry and Ron jump. She leapt up from the table and hurtled  from the room shouting as she went, “I’ll be backin a minute!”   “‘Merlin’s pants’?” repeated Ron, looking amused. “She must be upset.” He  pulled the newspaper toward him and perused the article about Snape.   “The other teachers won’t stand for this. McGonagall and Flitwick and  Sprout all know the truth, they know how Dumbledore died. They won’t accept  Snape as headmaster. And who are these Carrows?”   “Death Eaters,” said Harry. “There are pictures of them inside. They were  at the top off the tower when Snape killed Dumbledore, so it’s all friends together.  And,” Harry went on bitterly, drawing up a chair, “I can’t see that the   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    other teachershavegotanychoicebuttostay.Ifthe MinistryandVoldemort  are behind Snape it’ll be a choice between staying and teaching, or a nice few  years in Azkaban—and that’s if they’re lucky. I reckon they’ll stay to try and  protect the students.”   Kreacher came bustling to the table with a large tureen in his hands, and  ladled out soup into pristine bowls, whistling between his teeth as he did so.   “Thanks, Kreacher,” said Harry, flipping over the Prophet so as not to have  to look at Snape’s face. “Well, at least we know exactly where Snape is now.”   He began to spoon soup into his mouth. The quality of Kreacher’s cooking  had improved dramatically ever since he had been given Regulus’s locket:  Today’sFrenchonionwas as good as Harry had ever tasted.   “There are still a load of Death Eaters watching the house,” he told Ron as  he ate, “more than usual. It’s like they’re hoping we’ll marchout carrying our  school trunks and head off for the Hogwarts Express.”   Ron glanced at his watch.   “I’ve been thinking about that all day. It left nearly six hours ago. Weird,  not being on it, isn’t it?”   In his mind’s eye Harry seemed to see the scarlet steam engine as he and  Ronhad once followeditbyair, shimmering between fieldsand hills,a rippling  scarlet caterpillar. He was sure Ginny, Neville, and Luna were sitting together  at this moment, perhaps wondering where he, Ron, and Hermione were, or  debating how best to undermine Snape’s new regime.   “They nearly saw me coming backin just now,” Harry said. “I landed badly  on the top step, and the Cloak slipped.”   “I do that every time. Oh, here she is,” Ron added, craning around in his  seat to watch Hermione reentering the kitchen. “And what in the name of  Merlin’s most baggyYFrontswas that about?”   “I remembered this,” Hermione panted.   She was carrying a large, framed picture, which she now lowered to the  floor before seizing her small, beaded bag from the kitchen sideboard. Opening  it, she proceeded to force the painting inside, and despite the fact that it   
 197   was patently too large to fit inside the tiny bag, within a few seconds it had  vanished, like so muchelse, into the bag’s capricious depths.   “Phineas Nigellus,” Hermione explained as she threw the bag onto the kitchen  table with the usual sonorous, clanking crash.   “Sorry?” said Ron, but Harry understood. The painted image of Phineas  Nigellus Black was able to flit between his portrait in Grimmauld Place and  the one that hung in the headmaster’s office at Hogwarts: the circular towertoproomwhereSnapewasnodoubtsittingrightnow, in triumphant possession  of Dumbledore’s collection of delicate, silver magical instruments, the stone  Pensieve, the Sorting Hat and, unless it had been moved elsewhere, the sword  of Gryffindor.   “Snape could send Phineas Nigellus to look inside this house for him,” Hermione  explained to Ron as he resumed her seat. “But let him try now, all Phineas  Nigellus will be able to see is the inside of my handbag.”   “Good thinking!” said Ron, looking impressed.   “Thank you,” smiled Hermione, pulling her soup toward her. “So, Harry,  what else happened today?”   “Nothing,” said Harry. “Watched the Ministry entrance for seven house. No  sign of her. Saw you dad, though, Ron. He looks fine.”   Ron nodded his appreciation of this news. They had agreed that it was far  too dangerous to try and communicate with Mr. Weasley while he walked in  and out of the Ministry, because he was always surrounded by other Ministry  workers. It was, however, reassuring to catchthese glimpses of him, even if he  did look very strained and anxious.   “Dad always told us most Ministry people use the Floo Network to get to  work,” Ron said. “That’s why we haven’t seen Umbridge, she’d never walk,  she’dthink she’s too important.”   “And what about that funny old witch and that little wizard in the navy  robes?” Hermione asked.   “Oh yeah, the bloke from Magical Maintenance,” said Ron.   “How do you know he works for Magical Maintenance?” Hermione asked,   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    her soup spoon suspended in midair.   “Dad said everyone from Magical Maintenance wears navy blue robes.”   “But you never told us that!”   Hermione dropped her spoon and pulled toward her the sheaf of notes and  maps that she and Ron had been examining when Harry had entered the  kitchen.   “There’s nothing in here about navy blue robes, nothing!” she said, flipping  feverishly through the pages.   “Well, doe sit really matter?”   “Ron, it all matters! If we’re going to get into the Ministry and not give  ourselves away when they’re bound to be on the lookout for intruders, every  little detail matters!We’ve been over and over this,Imean, what’s the pointof  all these reconnaissance trips if you aren’t even bothering to tell us—”   “Blimey, Hermione,Iforget one little thing—”   “You do realize, don’t you, that there’s probably no more dangerous place in  the whole world for us to be right now than the Ministry of—”   “I think we should do it tomorrow,” said Harry.   Hermione stopped dead, her jaw hanging; Ron choked a little over his soup.   “Tomorrow?” repeated Hermione. “You aren’t serious, Harry?’   “I am,” said Harry. “I don’t think we’re going to be much better prepared  than we are now even if we skulk around the Ministry entrance for another  month. The longer we put it off, the farther awaythat locket could be. There’s  already a good chance Umbridge has chucked it away; the thing doesn’t open.”   “Unless,” said Ron, “she’s found a way of opening it and she’s now possessed,”    “Wouldn’t make any difference to her, sh e was so evil in the first place,”  Harry shrugged.   Hermione was biting her lip, deep in thought.   “We know everything important,” Harry went on, addressing Hermione.  “We know they’ve stopped Apparition in and out of the Ministry. We know  only the most senior Ministry members are allowed to connect their homes to   
 the Floo Network now, because Ron heard those two Unspeakables complaining  about it. And we know roughly where Umbridge’s office is, because of what  you heard that bearded bloke saying to his mate—”   “‘I’ll be up on level one, Dolores wants to see me,”’ Hermione recited immediately.    “Exactly,” said Harry. “And we know you get in using those funny coins, or  tokens, or whatever they are becauseI saw that witchborrowing one from her  friend—”   “But we haven’t got any!”   “I the plan works, we will have,” Harry continued calmly.   “Idon’tknow,Harry,Idon’tknow.... Thereareanawfullotofthingsthat  couldgo wrong, so muchrelies onchance.... ”   “That’ll be true even if we spend another three months preparing,” said  Harry. “It’s time to act.”   HecouldtellfromRon’sand Hermione’sfacesthattheywerescared,hewas  not particularly confident himself, and yet he was sure the time had come to  put their plan into operation.   They had spent the previous four weeks taking it in turns to don the Invisibility  Cloak and spy on the official entrance to the Ministry, whichRon, thanks  to Mr. Weasley, had known since childhood. They had tailed Ministry workers  on their wayin, eavesdropped on their conversations, and learned by careful  observation whichof them could be relied on upon to appear,alone,at the same  time every day. Occasionally there had been a chance to sneak a DailyProphet  out of somebody’s briefcase. Slowly they had built up the sketchy maps and  notes now stacked in front of Hermione.   “All right,” said Ron slowly, “let’s say we go for it tomorrow.... I think it  should just be me and Harry.”   “Oh, don’t start that again!” sighed Hermione. “I thought we’dsettled this.”   “It’s one thing hanging around the entrances under the Cloak, but this is  different, Hermione.” Ron jabbed a finger at a copy of the DailyProphet dared  ten days previously. “You’re on the list of Muggle-borns who didn’t present   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    themselves for interrogation!”   “And you’re supposed to be dying of spattergroit at the Burrow! If ayone  shouldn’t go, it’s Harry, he’s got a ten-thousand-Galleon price on his head—”   “Fine,I’llstayhere,”saidHarry. “Letmeknowifyou everdefeatVoldemort,  won’t you?”   As Ron and Hermione laughed, pain shot through the scar on Harry’s forehead.  His hand jumped to it: He saw Hermione’s eyes narrow; and he tried to  pass off the movement by brushing his hair out of his eyes.   “Well, if all three of us go we’ll have to Disapparate separately,” Ron was  saying. “We can’t all fit under the Cloak anymore.”   Harry’s scar was becoming more and more painful. He stood up. At once,  Kreacher hurried forward.   “Master has not finished his soup, would Master prefer the savory stew, or  else the treacle tart to whichMaster is so partial?”   “Thanks, Kreacher, but I’ll be backin a minute-er-bathroom.”   Aware that Hermione was watching him suspiciously, Harry hurried up the  stairs to the hall and then to the first landing, where he dashed into the bathroom  and bolted the door again. Grunting with pain, he slumped over the black  basinwithitstapsintheformof open-mouthed serpentsandclosedhiseyes....   Hewasglidingalongatwilit street.Thebuildingsoneithersideofhimhad  high, timbered gables; they looked like gingerbread houses.   He approached one of them, then sawthe whiteness of his own long-fingered  handagainstthedoor.Hefeltamounting excitement....   The door opened:Alaughing woman stood there. Her face fell as she looked  into Harry’s face, humor gone, terror replacing it....   “Gregorovitch?” said a high, cold voice.   She shook her head: She was trying to close the door. Awhite hand held it  steady, prevented her shutting him out....   “I want Gregorovitch.”   “Er wohnt hier nicht mehr!” she cried, shaking her head. “He no live here!  He no live here!Iknow him not!”   
 Abandoning the attempt toclose the door, she began to backawaydown the  dark hall, and Harry followed gliding toward her, and his long-fingered hand  had drawn his wand.   “Where is he?”   “Das welfs ichnicht! He move!Iknow not,Iknow not!”   He raised the wand. She screamed. Two young children came running into  the hall. She tried to shield them with her arms. There was a flash of green  light—   “Harry! HARRY!”   He opened his eyes; he had sunk to the floor. Hermione was pounding on  the door again.   “Harry, 9open up!”   He had shouted out, he knew it. He got up and unbolted the door; Hermione  toppled inside at once, regained her balance, and looked around suspiciously.  Ron was right behind her, looking unnerved as he pointed his wand into the  corners of the chilly bathroom.   “What were you doing?” asked Hermione sternly.   “What d’you thinkI was doing?” asked Harry with feeble bravado.   “You were yelling your head off?” said Ron.   “Oh yeah ...Imust’ve dozed off or—”   “Harry, please don’t insult our intelligence,” said Hermione, taking deep  breaths. “We know your scar hurt downstairs, and you’re white as a sheet.”   Harry sat down on the edge of the bath.   “Fine, I’vejust seenVoldemort murderinga woman. By nowhe’s probably  killed her whole family. And he didn’t need to. It was Cedric all over again,  they were just there.... ”   “Harry;, you aren’t supposed to let this happen anymore!” Hermione cried,  her voice echoing through the bathroom. “Dumbledore wanted you to use Occlumency!  He thought the connection was dangerous—Voldemort can use it,  Harry! What good is it to watchhim kill and torture, how can it help?”   “Becauseit meansIknow what he’s doing,” said Harry.   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    “So you’re not even going to try to shut him out?”   “Hermione,Ican’t.You know I’m lousy at Occlumency,I never got the hang  of it.”   “You never really tried!” she said hotly. “I don’t get it, Harry—do you like  having this special connection or relationship or what—whatever—”   She faltered under the look he gave her as he stood up.   “Like it?” he said quietly. “Would you like it?”   “I—no—I’m sorry, Harry,Ididn’t mean—”   “Ihateit,Ihatethefactthathecanget insideme,thatIhavetowatchhim  when he’s most dangerous. But I’m going to use it.”   “Dumbledore—”   “Forget Dumbledore. This is my choice, nobody else’s. I want to know why  he’s after Gregorovitch.”   “Who?”   “He’s a foreign wandmaker,” said Harry. “He made Krum’s wand and Krum  reckons he’s brilliant.”   “But according to you,” said Ron, “Voldemort’s got Ollivander locked up  somewhere. If he’s already got a wandmaker, what does he need another one  for?”   “Maybehe agreeswithKrum,maybehe thinks Gregorovitchis better...or  else he thinks Gregorovitchwill be able to explain what my wand did when he  was chasing me, because Ollivander didn’t know.”   Harry glanced into the cracked, dusty mirror and saw Ron and Hermione  exchanging skeptical looks behind his back.   “Harry, you keep talking about what your wand did,” said Hermione, “but  you made it happen! Why are you so determined not to take responsibility for  your own power?”   “BecauseIknowitwasn’tme! Andso doesVoldemort, Hermione!We both  know what really happened!”   They glared at eachother; Harry knew that he had not convinced Hermione  and that shewas marshaling counterarguments, against both his theory on his   
 wandandthe fact thathewas permitting himselfto see intoVoldemort’s mind.  To his relief, Ron intervened.   “Drop it,” he advised her. “It’s up to him. And if we’re going to the ministry  tomorrow, don’t you reckon we should go over the plan?”   Reluctantly,as the other two could tell, Hermione let the matter rest, though  Harry was quite sure she would attack again at the first opportunity. In the  meantime, they returned to the basement kitchen, where Kreacher served  them all stew and treacle tart.   They did not get to bed until late that night, after spending hours going  over and over their plan until they could recite it, word perfect, to eachother.  Harry, who was now sleeping in Sirius’s room, lay in bed with his wandlight  trained on the old photograph of his father, Sirius, Lupin, andPettigrew, and  muttered the plan to himself for another ten minutes. As he extinguished his  wand, however,hewas thinking notofPolyjuicePotion, PukingPastilles, or  the navy blue robes of Magical Maintenance; he thought of Gregorovitch the  wandmaker, and how long he could hope to remain hidden while Voldemort  sought him so determinedly.   Dawn seemed to follow midnight with indecent haste.   “You look terrible,” was Ron’s greeting as he entered the room to wake  Harry.   “Not for long,” said Harry, yawning.   They found Hermione downstairs in the kitchen. She was being served  coffee and hot rolls by Kreacher and wearing the slightly manic expression  that Harry associated with exam review.   “Robes,” she said under her breath, acknowledging her presence with a nervous  nod and continuing to poke around in her beaded bag, “Polyjuice potion  ... InvisibilityCloak...Decoy Detonators...Youshouldeachtakeacouplejust  in case.... PukingPastilles, Nosebleed Nougat, Extendable ears...”   They gulped down their breakfast, then set off upstairs, Kreacher bowing  them out and promising to have a steak-and-kidney pie ready for them when  they returned.   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    “Bless him,” said Ron fondly, “and when you thinkIused to fantasize about  cutting off his head and sticking it on the wall.”   They made their wayonto the front step with immense caution. They could  see a couple of puffy-eyed Death Eaters watching the house from across the  misty square.   Hermione disapparated with Ron first, then came backfor Harry.   Afterthe usualbrief spell of darkness and near suffocation, Harry found  himself in the tiny alleywaywhere the first phase of their plan was scheduled  to take place. It was as yet deserted, except for a couple of large bins; the first  ministry workers did not usually appear here until at least eight o’clock.   “Right then,” said Hermione, checking her watch. “She ought to be here in  about five minutes. When I’ve Stunned her—”   “Hermione, we know,” said Ronsternly. “AndIthought we were supposed  to open the door before she got here?”   Hermione squealed.   “I nearly forgot! Stand back—”   She pointed her wand at the padlocked and heavily graffitied fire door beside  them, whichburst open with a crash. The dark corridor behind it led, as  they knew from their careful scouting trips, into an empty theater. Hermione  pulled the door backtoward her, to make it look as though it was still closed.   “And now,” she said, turning backto face the other two in the alley way, “we  put on the Cloak again—”   “—andwewait,”Ronfinished,throwingitover Hermione’sheadlikeablanket  over a birdcage and rolling his eyes at Harry.   Little more than a minute later, there was a tiny pop and a little Ministry  witchwith flyawaygrayhair Apparated feet from them, blinking a little in the  sudden brightness: the sun had just come out from behind a cloud. She barely  had time to enjoy the unexpected warmth, however, before Hermione’s silent  Stunning Spell hit her in the chest and she toppled over.   “Nicely done, Hermione,” said Ron, emerging from behind a bin beside the  theater door as Harry took off the Invisibility Cloak.Together they carried the   
 little witchinto the dark passagewaythat led backstage. Hermione plucked a  few hairs fromthe witch’s headand added themtoa flaskof muddyPolyjuice  Potion she had taken from the beaded bag. Ron was rummaging through the  little witch’s handbag.   “She’s Mafalda Hopkirk,” he said, reading a small card that identified their  victim as an assistant in the Improper Use of Magic Office. “You’dbetter take  this, Hermione, and here are the tokens,”   He passed her several small golden coins, all embossed with the letters  M.O.M., whichhe had taken from the witch’s purse.   Hermione drank thePolyjuicePotion, which was nowa pleasant heliotrope  color,and within seconds stood before them, the double of Mafalda Hopkirk. As  she removed Mafalda’s spectacles and put them on, Harry checked his watch.   “Were running late, Mr. Magical Maintenance will be here any second.”   They hurried to the close the door on the real Mafalda; Harry and Ron  threw the Invisibility Cloak over themselves but Hermione remained in view,  waiting. Seconds later there was another pop, and a small, ferrety—looking  wizard appeared before them.   “Oh, hello, Mafalda.”   “Hello!” said Hermione in a quavery voice. “How are you today?”   “Not so good, actually,” replied the little wizard, who looked thoroughly  downcast.   As Hermione and the wizard headed for the main road, Harry and Ron crept  along behind them.   “I’m sorry to hear you’re under the heather,” said Hermione, talking firmly  overthe little wizardashe triedto expounduponhis problems;itwas essential  to stop him from reaching the street.   “Here, have a sweet.”   “Eh? Oh, no thanks—”   “I insist!” said Hermione aggressively,shakingthebagof pastillesihisface.  Looking rather alarmed, the little wizard took one.   The effect was instantaneous. The moment the pastille touched his tongue,   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    the little wizard started vomiting so hard that he did not even notice as Hermione  yanked a handful of hairs from the top of his head.   “Oh dear!” she said, as he splattered the alley with sick. “Perhaps you’d  better take the dayoff!”   “No—no!” He choked and retched, trying to continue on his way despite  being unable to walk straight. “I must—today—must go—”   “But that’s just silly!” said Hermione, alarmed. “You can’t go to work in this  state—I think you ought to go to St. Mungo’s and get them to sort you out!”   The wizard had collapsed, heaving, onto all fours, still trying to crawl toward  the main street.   “You simply can’t go to work like this!” cried Hermione.   Atlastheseemedtoacceptthetruthofherwords.Usingarepulsed Hermione  toclaw hisawaybackintoa standing positions,he turned on the spot and vanished,  leaving nothing behind but the bag Ron had snatched from his hand as  he went and some flying chunks of vomit.   “Urgh,” said Hermione, holding up the skirts of her robe to avoid the puddles  of sick. “It would have made muchless mess to Stun him too.”   “Yeah,” said Ron, emerging from under the cloak holding the wizard’s bag,  “but I still think a whole pile of unconscious bodies would have drawn more  attention.Keen on his job, though, isn’t he? Chuck us the hair and the potion,  then.”   Within two minutes, Ron stood before them, as small and ferrety as the sick  wizard, and wearing the navy blue robes that had been folded in his bag.   “Weirdhewasn’t wearingthemtoday,wasn’tit,seeinghowmuchhewanted  to go? Anyway, I’m Reg Cattermole, according to the label in the back.”   “Now wait here,” Hermione told Harry, who was still under the Invisibility  Cloak, “and we’ll be backwith some hairs for you.”   He had to wait ten minutes, but it seemed muchlonger to Harry, skulking  alone in the sick-splattered alleyway beside the door concealing the Stunned  Mafalda.Finally Ron and Hermione reappeared.   “We don’t know who he is,” Hermione said, passing Harry several curly   
 blackhairs, “but he’s gone home with a dreadful nosebleed! Here, he’s pretty  tall, you’ll need bigger robes.... ”   She pulled out a set of the old robes Kreacher had laundered for them, and  Harry retired to take the potion and change.   Once the painful transformation was complete he was more than six feet  tall, and from what he couldtell from his well-muscled arms, powerfully built.  He also had a beard. Stowing the Invisibility Cloak and his glasses inside his  new robes, he rejoined the other two.   “Blimey, that’s scary,” said Ron, looking up at Harry, who now towered over  them.   “Take one of Mafalda’s tokens,” Hermione told Harry, “and let’s go, it’s  nearly nine.”   They stepped out of the alleywaytogether. Fifty yards along the crowded  pavement there were spiked black railings flanking two flights of steps, one  labeled GENTLEMEN, the other LADIES.   “See you in a moment, then,” said Hermione nervously, and she tottered off  down the steps to LADIES. Harry and Ron joined a number of oddly dressed  men descending into what appeared to be an ordinary underground public toilet,  tiled in grimy blackand white.   “Morning, Reg!” called another wizard in navy blue robes as he let himself  into a cubicle by inserting his golden token into a slot in the door. “Blooming  paininthebum, this,eh?Forcingusalltogettowork thisway!Who arethey  expectingto turnup, HarryPotter?”   The wizard roared with laughter at his own wit. Ron gave a forced chuckle.   “Yeah,” he said, “stupid, isn’t it?”   And he and Harry let themselves into adjoining cubicles.   To Harry’s left and right came the sound of flushing. He crouched down and  peered through the gap at the bottom of the cubicle, just in time to see a pair  of booted feet climbing into the toilet next door. He looked left and saw Ron  blinking at him.   “We have to flush ourselves in?” he whispered.   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    “Looks like it,” Harry whispered back; he voice came out deep and gravelly.   They both stoodup.Feeling exceptionally foolish, Harryclambered into the  toilet.   He knew at once that he had done the right thing; though he appeared to be  standinginwater,hisshoes,feet,androbes remainedquitedry.He reachedup,  pulled the chain, and next moment had zoomed down a short chute, emerging  out a fireplace into the Ministry of Magic.   Hegotupclumsily; therewasalot moreofhisbodythanhewas accustomed  to. The great Atrium seemed darker than Harry remembered it. Previously a  golden fountain had filled the center of the hall, casting shimmering spots of  light over the polished wooden floor and walls. Now a gigantic statue of black  stone dominated the scene. It was rather frightening, this was sculpture of  a witch and a wizard sitting on ornately carved thrones, looking down at the  Ministry workers toppling out of fireplaces below them. Engraved in foot-high  letters at the base of the statue were the words MAGIC IS MIGHT.   Harry received a heavy blow on the back of the legs: Another wizard had  just flown out of the fireplace behind him.   “Out of the way, can’t y—oh, sorry, Runcorn!”   Clearly frightened, the balding wizard hurried away. Apparently the man  whom Harry was impersonating, Runcorn, was intimidating.   “Psst!” saidavoice,andhe looked aroundtoseeawispy littlewitchandthe  ferrety wizard from Magical Maintenance gesturing to him from over beside  the statue. Harry hastened to join them.   “You got in all right, then?” Hermione whispered to Harry.   “No, he’s still stuckin the bog,” said Ron.   “Oh, very funny...It’s horrible, isn’t it?” she saidto Harry, whowas staring  up at the statue. “Have you seen what they’re sitting on?”   Harry looked moreclosely and realized that whathe had though were decoratively  carved thrones were actually mounds of carved human: hundreds and  hundreds of naked bodies, men, women, and children, all with rather stupid,  ugly faces, twisted and pressed together to support the weight of the hand   
 somely robed wizards.   “Muggles,” whispered Hermione. “In their rightful place. Come on, let’s get  going.”   They joined the stream of witches and wizards moving toward the golden  gates at the end of the hall looking around as surreptitiously as possible, but  there was no sign of the distinctive figure of Dolores Umbridge. They passed  through the gates and into a smaller hall, where queues were forming in front  of twenty golden grilles housing as many lifts. They had barely joined the  nearest one when a voice said, “Cattermole!”   They looked around: Harry’s stomachturned over. One of the Death Eaters  who had witnessed Dumbledore’s death was striding toward them. The Ministry  workers beside them fell silent, their eyes downcast. Harry could feel fear  rippling through them. The man’s scowling, slightly brutish face was somehow  at odds with his magnificent, sweeping robes, which were embroidered with  much gold thread. Someone in the crowd around the lifts called sycophantically,  “Morning,Yaxley!”Yaxley ignored them.   “I requested somebody from Magical Maintenance to sort out my office, Cattermole.  It’s still raining in there.”   Ron looked around as though hoping somebody else would intervene, but  nobody spoke.   “Raining...in your office? That’s—that’s not good,is it?”   Rongavea nervous laugh.Yaxley’s eyes widened.   “You think it’s funny, Cattermole, do you?”   Apair of witches broke awayfrom the queue for the list and bustled off.   “No,” said Ron, “no, of course—”   “You realizethatI amonmywaydownstairsto interrogateyourwife,Cattermole.  In fact, I’m quite surprised you’re not down there holding her hand  while she waits. Already given her up as a bad job, have you? Probably wise.  Be sure and marry a pureblood next time.”   Hermione had let out a little squeak of horror. Yaxley looked at her. She  coughed feebly and turned away.   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    “I—I—” stammered Ron.   “But if my wife were accusedof beinga Mudblood,” saidYaxley, “—not that  any womanImarried would ever be mistaken for suchfilth—and the Head of  the Departmentof MagicalLaw Enforcement neededajob doing,Iwould make  it my priority to do that job, Cattermole. Do you understand me?’p’   “Yes,” whispered Ron.   “Then attend to it, Cattermole, and if my office is not completely dry within  an hour, you wife’s Blood Status will be in even graver doubt than it is now.”   The golden grille before them clattered open. With a nod an unpleasant  smile to Harry, who was evidently expected to appreciate this treatment of  Cattermole,Yaxley sweptawaytoward another lift. Harry, Ron, and Hermione  enteredtheirs,butnobody followedthem:Itwasasiftheywere infectious.The  grilles shut with a clang and the lift began to move upward.   “What am I going to do?” Ron asked the other two at once; he looked  stricken. “IfIdon’t turnup,my wife...Imean, Cattermole’s wife—”   “We’ll come with you, we should stick together—” began Harry, but Ron  shook his head feverishly.   “That’s mental, we haven’t got much time. You two find Umbridge, I’ll go  and sort outYaxley’s office—but howdoIstopit raining?”   “TryFinite Incantatem,” said Hermione at once, “that should stop the rain  if it’s a hex or curse; if it doesn’t, something’s gone wrong with an Atmospheric  Charm, whichwill be more difficult to fix, so as an interim measure try Impervius  to protect his belongings—”   “Say it again, slowly—” said Ron, searching his pockets desperately for a  quill, but at that moment the lift juddered to a halt. A disembodied female  voice said, “Level four, Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical  Creatures, incorporating Beast, Being, and Spirit Divisions, Goblin Liason Office,  andPest Advisory Bureau,” and the grilles slid open again, admittinga  couple of wizards and several pale violet paper airplanes that fluttered around  the lamp in the ceiling of the lift.   “Morning, Albert,” said a bushily whiskered man, smiling at Harry. He   
 glanced over at Ron and Hermione as the lift creaked upward once more:  Hermione was now whispering frantic instructions to Ron. The wizard leaned  toward Harry, leering, and muttered, “Dirk Cresswell, eh? From Goblin Liaison?  Nice one, Albert, I’m pretty confident I’ll get his job now!”   He winked. Harry smiled back, hoping that this would suffice. The lift  stopped; the grilles opened once more.   “Level two,Department of Magical lawenforcement, including the Improper  UseofMagicOffice,Auror Headquarters,andWizengamot AdministrationServices,”  said the disembodied witch’s voice.   Harry saw Hermione give Ron a little push and he hurried out of the lift,  followedbythe other wizards,leaving Harry and Hermione alone. The moment  the golden door hadclosed Hermione said, very fast, “Actually, Harry,Ithink  I’d better go after him,I don’t think he knows what he’s doing and if he gets  caught the whole thing—”   “Level one, Minister of Magic and Support Staff.”   The golden grilles slid apart again and Hermione gasped.Four people stood  before them, two of them in deep conversation: a long-haired wizard wearing  magnificent robes of black and gold, and a squat, toad-like witch wearing a  velvet bow in her short hair and clutching a clipboard to her chest.   
 CHAPTER  12.  MAGIC  IS  MIGHT    
 Chapter  13    The  Muggle—born  Registration  Commission    A A h, Mafalda!” said Umbridge, looking at Hermione. “Travers sent  you, did he?”  “Y—yes,” squeaked Hermione.    “Good, you’ll do perfectly well.” Umbridge spoke to the wizard in blackand  gold. “That’sthat problem solved, Minister,if Mafalda can be spared for record- keeping we shall be able to start straightaway.” She consulted her clipboard.  “Ten people todayand one of them the wife of a Ministry employee!! Tut, tut  ... even here, in the heart of the Ministry!” She stepped into the lift beside  Hermione, as did the two wizards who had been listening to Umbridge’s conversation  with the Minister. “We’ll go straight down, Mafalda, and you’ll find  everything you need in the courtroom.   “Good morning, Albert, aren’t you getting out?”   “Yes, of course,” said Harry in Runcorn’s deep voice.   Harry stepped out of the lift. The golden grilles clanged shut behind him.  glancing over his shoulder, Harry saw Hermione’s anxious face sinking back  out of sight, a tall wizard on either side of her, Umbridge’s velvet hair-bow  level with her shoulder.   213   
 214 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    “What brings you up here, Runcorn?” asked the new Minister of Magic. His  long blackhair and beard were streaked with silver, and a great overhanging  forehead shadowed his glinting eyes, putting Harry in mind of a crab looking  out from beneath a rock.   “Needed a quick word with,” Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second,  “ArthurWeasley. Someone saidhewasup on level one.”   “Ah,” said Pius Thickness. “Has he been caught having contact with an  Undesirable?”   “No,” said Harry, his throat dry. “No, nothing like that.”   “Ah, well. It’s only a matter of time,” said Thicknesse. “If you ask me, the  blood traitors are as bad as the Mudbloods. Good day, Runcorn.”   “Good day, Minister.”   Harry watched Thicknesse march awayalong the thickly carpeted corridor.  The moment the Minister had passed out of sight, Harry tugged the Invisibility  Cloak out from under his heavy black cloak, threw it over himself, and set off  along the corridor in the opposite direction. Runcorn was so tall that Harry  was forced to stoop to make sure his big feet were hidden.   Panic pulsed in the pit of his stomach. As he passed gleaming wooden door  after gleaming wooden door, each bearing a small plaque with the owner’s  name and occupation upon it, the might of the Ministry, its complexity, its  impenetrability, seemed to force itself upon him so that the plan he had been  carefully concocting with Ron and Hermione over the past four weeks seemed  laughably childish. They ha concentrated all their efforts on getting inside  without being detected. They had not given a moment’s thought to what they  woulddoiftheywereforcedtoseparate.Now Hermionewasstuckincourtproceedings,  whichwould undoubtedly last hours; Ron was struggling to do magic  that Harry was sure was beyond him, a woman’s liberty possibly depending on  the outcome; and he, Harry, was wandering around on the top floor when he  knew perfectly well that has quarry had just gone down in the lift.   He stopped walking, leaned against a wall, and tried to decide what to do.  The silence pressed upon him: There was no bustling or talk or swift footsteps   
 here; the purple-carpeted corridors were as hushed as though the Muffliato   charm had been cast over the place.   Her office must be up here, Harry thought.   It seemed most unlikely that Umbridge would keep her jewelry in her office,  but on the other hand it seemed foolish not to searchit to make sure. He therefore  set off along the corridor again, passing nobody buta frowning wizard who  was murmuring instructions to a quill that floated in front of him, scribbling  on a trail of parchment.   Now paying attention to the names on the doors, Harry turned a corner.  Halfway along the next corridor he emerged into a wide open space where a  dozen witches and wizards sat in rows at small desks not unlike school desks,  though much more highly polished and free from graffiti. Harry paused to  watchthem, for the effect was quite mesmerizing. They were all waving and  twiddling their wands in unison, and squares of colored paper were flying in  every direction like little pink kites. After a few seconds, Harry realized that  there was a rhythm to the proceedings, that the papers all formed the same  pattern, and after a few more seconds he realized that what he was watching  was the creation of pamphlets—that the paper squares were pages, which,  when assembled, folded, and magicked into place, fell into neat stacks beside  eachwitch or wizard.   Harry crept closer, although the workers were so intent on what they were  doing that he doubted they would notice a carpet-muffled footstep, and he slid  a completed pamphlet from the pile beside a young witch. He examined it  beneath the Invisibility Cloak. Its pink cover was emblazoned with a golden  title:   MUDBLOODS    and the DangersTheyPose to  aPeaceful Pure-Blood Society   Beneath the title was a picture of a red rose with a simpering face in the  middle of its petals, being strangled by a green weed with fangs and a scowl.   
 216 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    there was no author’s name upon the pamphlet, but again, the scars on the  back of his right hand seemed to tingle as he examined it. then the young  witchbeside him confirmed his suspicion as she said, still waving and twirling  her wand, “Will the old hag be interrogating Mudbloods all day, does anyone  know?”   “Careful,” said the wizard beside her, glancing around nervously; one of his  pages slipped and fell to the floor.   “what, has she got magic ears as well as an eye, now?”   the witchglanced toward the shining mahogany door facing the space full  of pamphlet-makers; Harry looked too, and rage reared in him like a snake.  Wheretheremighthavebeena peepholeonaMugglefrontdoor,alarge,round  eye with a bright blue iris had been set into the wood—an eye that was shockingly  familiar to anybody who had known Alastor Moody.   For a split second Harry forgot where he was and what he was doing there:  He even forgot that he was invisible. He strode straight over to the door to  examine the eye. It was not moving: It gazed blindly upward, frozen. The  plaque beneath it read:   DOLORES  UMBRIDGE    SENIOR UNDERSECRETARY TO THE MINISTER   Below that, a slightly shinier new plaque read:   HEAD OF THE MUGGLE-BORN  REGISTRATION COMMISSION    Harry looked backat the dozen pamphlet-makers: Though they were intent  upon their work, he could hardly suppose that they would not notice if the door  of an empty office opened in front of them. He therefore withdrew from an  inner pocket an odd object with little waving legs and a rubber-bulbed horn for  a body. Crouching down beneath the cloak, he placed the Decoy Detonator on  the ground.   It scuttled away at once through the legs of the witches and wizards in  front of him. Afew moments later, during whichHarry waited with his hand   
 upon the doorknob, there came a long band and a great deal of acrid black  smoke billowed from a corner. the young witchin the front row shrieked: Pink  pages flew everywhere as she and her fellows jumped up,looking around for the  source of the commotion. Harry turned the doorknob, stepped into Umbridge’s  office, and closed the door behind him.   He felt he had stepped backin time. The room was exactly like Umbridge’s  office at Hogwarts: Lace draperies, doilies, and dried flowers covered every  available surface. The walls bore the same ornamental plates, eachfeaturing  a highly colored, beribboned kitten, gamboling and frisking with a sickening  cuteness. The desk was covered with a flouncy, flowered cloth. Behind MadEye’s  eye, a telescopic attachment enabled Umbridge to spy on the workers on  the other sideof the door. Harrytooka look throughit and saw that they were  all still gathered around the Decoy Detonator. He wrenched the telescope out of  the door, leaving a hole behind, pulled the magical eyeball out of it, and placed  it in his pocket. Then he turned to face the room again, raised his wand, and  murmured, “Accio Locket.”   Nothing happened, but he had not expected it to; no doubt Umbridge knew  all about protective charms and spells. He therefore hurried behind her desk  and began pulling open drawers. He saw quills and notebooks and Spellotape;  enchanted paper clips that coiled snakelike from their drawer and had to be  beatenback;afussy littlelaceboxfullofsparehairbowsandclips;butnosign  of a locket.   there was a filing cabinet behind the desk: Harry set to searching it. Like  Filch’s filing cabinets at Hogwarts, it was full of folders, each labeled with a  name. It was not until Harry reached the bottommost drawer that he saw  something to distract him from his search: Mr.Weasley’s file.   He pulled it out and opened it.   ARTHUR WEASLEY   
 218 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    BLOOD STATUS Pureblood, but with unacceptable pro- Muggle leanings. Known member of the  Order of the Phoenix  FAMILY: Wife (pureblood), seven children, two  youngest at Hogwarts. NB: Youngest son  currently at home, seriously ill, Ministry  inspectors have confirmed.  SECURITY STATUS: TRACKED. All movements are being  monitored. Strong likelihood Undesirable  No. 1will contact (has stayed with  Weasley family previously)   “Undesirable Number One,” Harry muttered under his breath as he replaced  Mr. Weasley’s folder and shut the drawer. He had an idea he knew  who that was, and sure enough, as he straightened up and glanced around the  office for fresh hiding places, he saw a poster of himself on the wall, with the  words UNDESIRABLE NO. 1 emblazoned across his chest. A little pink note  was stuckto it with a picture of a kitten in the corner. Harry moved across to  read it and saw that Umbridge had written, “To be punished.”   Angrier than ever, he proceeded to grope in the bottoms of the vases and  baskets of dried flowers, but was not at all surprised that the locket was not  there. He gave the office one last sweeping look and his heart skipped a beat.  Dumbledore was staring at him from a small rectangular mirror, propped up  on a bookcase beside the desk.   Harry crossed the room and snatched it up, but realized the moment he  touched it that it was not am mirror at all. Dumbledore was smiling wistfully  out of the front cover of a glossybook, Harry had not immediately noticed the  curly green writing across his hat—The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledore—   
 nor the slightly smaller writing across his chest: “by Rita skeeter, bestselling  author of Armando Dippet: Master or Moron?”   Harry opened the book at random and saw a full-page photograph of two  teenage boys, both laughing immoderately with their arms around eachother’s  shoulders. Dumbledore, now with elbow-length hair, had grown a tiny wispy  beard that recalled the one on Krum’s chin that had so annoyed Ron. The boy  who roared in silent amusement beside Dumbledore had a gleeful, wild look  about him. His golden hair fell in curls to his shoulders. Harry wondered  whether it was a young doge, but before he could checkthe caption, the door of  the office opened.   If Thicknesse had not been looking over his shoulder as he entered, Harry  would not have had time to pull the Invisibility cloak over himself. As it was,  he thought Thicknesse might have caught a glimpse of movement because for  a moment or two he remained quite still, staring curiously at the place where  Harry had just vanished. Perhaps deciding that all he had seen was Dumbledore  scratching his nose on the front of the book, for Harry had hastily replaced  it upon the shelf. Thicknesse finally walked to the desk and pointed his wand  at the quill standing ready in the ink pot. It sprang out and begun scribbling a  note to Umbridge. Very slowly, hardly daring to breathe, Harry backed out of  the office into the open area beyond.   The pamphlet-makers were still clustered around the remains of the Decoy  Detonator, whichcontinued to hoot feebly as it smoked. Harry hurried off up  the corridor as the young witchsaid, “I bet it sneaked up here from Experimental  Charms, they’re so careless, remember that poisonous duck?”   Speedingback toward the lifts, Harry reviewed his options. It had never  been likely that the locket was here at the Ministry, and there was no hope of  bewitchingits whereaboutsoutofUmbridgewhileshewassittinginacrowded  court. Their priority now had to be to leave the Ministry before they were  exposed, and try again another day. The first thing to do was to find Ron, and  then they could work out a wayof extracting Hermione from the courtroom.   The lift was empty when it arrived. Harry jumped in a pulled off the Invis   
 220 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    ibility Cloak as it started its descent. to his enormous relief, when it rattle to a   halt at level two, a soaking-wet and wild-eyed Ron got in.   “M-morning,” he stammered to Harry as the lift set off again.   “Ron, it’s me, Harry!”   “Harry! Blimey, I forgot what you looked like—why isn’t Hermione with  you?”   “She had to go down to the courtrooms with Umbridge, she couldn’t refuse,  and—”   But before Harry could finish the lift had stopped again. The doors opened  and Mr. Weasley walked inside, talking to an elderly witchwhose blonde hair  was teased so high that it resembled an anthill.   “ ...Iquite understand what you’re saying,Wakanda, but I’m afraidI cannot  be part to—”   Mr. Weasley broke off; he had noticed Harry. It was very strange to have  Mr.Weasleyglareathimwiththatmuchdislike.Theliftdoorsclosedandthe  four of them trundled downward once more.   “Oh, hello, Reg,” said Mr. Weasley, looking around at the sound of steady  dripping from Ron’srobes. “Isn’t your wife in for questioning today? Er—what’s  happened to you? Why are you so wet?”   “Yaxley’s office is raining,” said Ron. He addressed Mr. Weasley’s shoulder,  and Harry felt sure he was scared that his father might recognize him if they  looked directly into eachother’s eyes. “I couldn’t stop it, so they’ve sent me to  get Bernie—Pillsworth,Ithink they said—”   “Yes, a lot of offices have been raining lately,” said Mr. Weasley. “Did you  try Meterolojinx Recanto? It worked for Bletchley.”   “Meterolojinx Recanto?” whispered Ron. “No,Ididn’t. Thanks, D—I mean,  thanks, Arthur.”   The lift doors opened; the old witchwith the anthill hair left, and Ron darted  past her out of sight. Harry made to follow him, but found his path blocked  asPercyWeasley strode into the lift, his nose buriedin some papershewas  reading.   
 Not until the doors hadclanged shut again didPercy realizehewasina lift  with his father. He glanced up, saw Mr. Weasley, turned radish red, and left  the lift the moment the doors opened again. For the second time, Harry tried  togetout,butthistime foundhiswayblockedbyMr.Weasley’s arm.   “One moment, Runcorn.”   The lift doors closed and as they clanked down another floor, Mr. Weasley  said, “I hear you laid information about Dirk Cresswell.”   Harry had the impression that Mr. Weasley’s anger was no less because of  the brushwithPercy.He decidedhisbestchancewastoact stupid.   “Sorry?” he said.   “Don’t pretend, Runcorn,” said Mr. Weasley fiercely. “You down the wizard  who faked his family tree, didn’t you?”   “I—so what ifIdid?” said Harry.   “So Dirk Cresswell is ten times the wizard you are,” said Mr. Weasley quietly,  as the lift sank ever lower. “And if he survives Azkaban, you’ll have to  answer to him, not to mention his wife, his sons, and his friends—”   “Arthur,” Harry interrupted, “you know you’re being tracked, don’t you?”   “Is thata threat, Runcorn?” saidMr.Weasley loudly.   “No,” said Harry, “it’s a fact! They’re watching your every move—”   The lift doors opened. They had reached the Atrium. Mr. Weasley gave  Harry a scathing look and swept from the lift. Harry stood there, shaken. He  wishedhewas impersonating somebody other than Runcorn.... the lift doors  clanged shut.   Harry pulled out the Invisibility Cloak and put it back on. He would try to  extricate Hermione on his own while Ron was dealing with the raining office.  When the doors opened, he stepped out into a torch-lit stone passagewayquite  different from the wood-paneled and carpeted corridors above. As the lift rattledawayagain,  Harry shivered slightly, looking toward the distant blackdoor  that marked the entrance to the Department of Mysteries.   He set off, his destination not the black door, but the doorway he remembered  on the left-hand side, whichopened onto the flight of stairs down to the   
 222 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    court chambers. His mind grappled with possibilities as he crept down them:  He still had a couple of Decoy Detonators, but perhaps it would be better to  simply knock on the courtroom door, enter as Runcorn, and ask for a quick  word with Mafalda? Of course, he did not know whether Runcorn was sufficientlyimportanttogetawaywiththis, andeveifhemanagedit, Hermione’s  non-reappearance might trigger a search before they were clear of the Ministry....    Lost in thought, he did not immediately register the unnatural chill that  was creeping over him, as if he were descending into fog. It was becoming  colder and colder with every step he took: a cold that reached right down into  his throat and tore at his lungs. And then he felt that stealing sense of despair,  of hopelessness, filling him, expanding inside him....   Dementors, he thought.   Ashereachedthefootofthestairsandturnedtohisrighthesawa dreadful  scene. The dark passage outside the courtrooms was packed with tall, black—  hooded figures, their faces completely hidden, their ragged breathing the only  sound in the place. The petrified Muggle-borns brought in for questioning sat  huddled and shivering on hard wooden benches. Most of them were hiding  their faces in their hands, perhaps in an instinctive attempt to shield themselves  from the dementors’ greedy mouths. Some were accompanied by families,  others sat alone. The dementors were gliding up an down in front of them,  and the cold, and the hopelessness,and the despair of the place laid themselves  upon Harry likea curse....   Fight it,hetold himself,butheknewthathe couldnot conjureaPatronus  here without revealing himself instantly. So he moved forward as silently as  he could, and with every step he took numbness seemed to steal over his brain,  but he forced himself to think of Hermione and of Ron, who needed him.   Moving through the towering blackfigureswasterrifying: The eyeless faces  hidden beneath their hoods turned as he passed, and he felt sure that they  sense him, sensed, perhaps, a human presence that still had some hope, some  resilience....   
 And then, abruptly and shockingly amid the frozen silence, one of the dungeon  doors on the left of the corridor was flung open and screams echoed out of  it.   “No,no,I’mahalf-blood,I’mahalf-blood,Itellyou!Myfatherwasawizard,  he was, look him up, Arkie Alderton, he’s a well-known broomstick designer,  lookhimup,Itell you—getyour handsoffme,getyour hands off—”   “Thisis your finalwarning,” said Umbridge’ssoft voice,magically magnified  so that it sounded clearly over the man’s desperate screams. “If you struggle,  you will be subjected to the Dementor’s Kiss.”   The man’s screams subsided, but dry sobs echoed through the corridor.   “Take him away,” said Umbridge.   Two dementors appeared in the doorway of the courtroom, their rotting,  scabbed hands clutching the upper arms of a wizard who appeared to be fainting.  They glided away down the corridor with him, and the darkness they  trailed behind them swallowed him from sight.   “Next—Mary Cattermole,” called Umbridge.   A small woman stood up; she was trembling from head to foot. Her dark  hairwas smoothed backintoabun and she wore long,plain robes. Her facewas  completely bloodless. As she passed the dementors, Harry saw her shudder.   He did it instinctively, without any sort of plan, because he hated the sight  ofherwalkingaloneintothe dungeon:Asthedoorbegantoswingclosed,he  slipped into the courtroom behind her.   It was not the same room in which he had once been interrogated for improper  use of magic. This one was muchsmaller, though the ceiling was quite  as high; it gave the claustrophobic sense of being stuckat the bottom of a deep  well.   There were more dementors in here, casting their freezing aura over the  place; they stoodlike faceless sentinels in the corners farthest from the high  raised platform. Here, behinda balustrade, sat Umbridge, withYaxley on one  side of her, and Hermione, quite as white-faced as Mrs. Cattermole, on the  other. At the foot of the platform, a bright-silver, long-haired cat prowled up   
 224 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    and down, up and down, up and down, and Harry realized that it was there to  protect the prosecutors from the despair that emanated from the dementors:  That was for the accused to feel, not the accusers.   “Sit down,” said Umbridge in her soft, silky voice.   Mrs. Cattermole stumbled to the single seat in the middle of the floor beneath  the raised platform. The moment she had sat down, chains clinked out  of the arms of the chair and bound her there.   “You are Mary Elizabeth Cattermole?” asked Umbridge.   Mrs. Cattermole gave a single, shaky nod.   “Married to Reginald Cattermole of the Magical Maintenance Department?”   Mrs. Cattermole burst into tears.   “I don’t know where he is, he was supposed to meet me here!”   Umbridge ignored her.   “Mother to Maisie, Ellie, and Alfred Cattermole?”   Mrs. Cattermole sobbed harder than ever.   “They’re frightened, they thinkImight not come home—”   “Spare us,” spat Yaxley. “The brats of Mudbloods do not stir our sympathies.”    Mrs. Cattermole’s sobs masked Harry’s footsteps as he made his way carefully  towardthe steps that led up to the raised platform. The moment he had  passedtheplacewherethePatronuscat patrolled,hefeltthechangeintemperature: Itwaswarmand comfortablehere.ThePatronus,hewas sure,wasUmbridge’s, anditglowed brightly becauseshewassohappyhere,inher element,  upholding the twisted laws she had helped to write. Slowly, and very carefully,  he edged hiswayalong the platform behind Umbridge,Yaxley, and Hermione,  taking a seat behind the latter. He was worried about making Hermione jump.  He thoughtof castingthe Muffliatocharmupon UmbridgeandYaxley,but even  murmuring the word might cause Hermione alarm. Then Umbridge raised her  voice to address Mrs. Cattermole, and Harry seized his chance.   “I’m behind you,” he whispered into Hermione’s ear.   As he had expected, she jumped so violently she nearly overturned the bot   
 225   tle of ink with whichshe was supposed to be recording the interview, but both  Umbridge andYaxley were concentrating upon Mrs. Cattermole,and this went  unnoticed.   “A wand was taken from you upon your arrival at the Ministry today, Mrs.  Cattermole,” Umbridge was saying, “Eight-and-three-quarter inches, cherry,  unicorn-hair core. Do you recognize that description?”   Mrs. Cattermole nodded, mopping her eyes on her sleeve.   “Could you please tell us from whichwitch or wizard you took that wand?”   “T—took?” sobbed Mrs. Cattermole. “I didn’t t-take it from anybody. I  b-boughtit whenI was eleven years old. It—it—it—chose me.”   She cried harder than ever.   Umbridgelaughedasoft girlishlaughthatmadeHarrywantto attackher.  She leaned forward over the barrier,the better to observe her victim, and something  gold swung forward too, and dangled over the void: the locked.   Hermionehad seenit;sheletouta little squeak,but UmbridgeandYaxley,  still intent upon their prey, were deaf to everything else.   “No,” said Umbridge, “no, I don’t think so, Mrs. Cattermole. Wands only  choose witches or wizards. You are not a witch. Ihave your responses to the  questionnaire that was sent to you here—Mafalda, pass them to me.”   Umbridge held out a small hand: She looked so toadlike at that moment  that Harry was quite surprised not to see webs between the stubby fingers.  Hermione’shandswereshakingwithshock.She fumbledinapileof documents  balancedonthechairbesideher,finally withdrawingasheafofparchmentwith  Mrs. Cattermole’s name o nit.   “That’s—that’s pretty, Dolores,” she said, pointing at the pendant gleaming  in the ruffled folds of Umbridge’s blouse.   “What?” snapped Umbridge, glancing down. “Oh yes—an old family heirloom,”  she said, patting the locket lying on her large bosom. “The S  stands for  Selwyn.... I am related to the Selwyns.... Indeed, there are few pure blood  familiestowhomI amnot related....Apity,”she continuedina loudervoice,  flicking through Mrs. Cattermole’s questionnaire, “that the same cannot be   
 226 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    said for you. ‘Parents processions: greengrocers.”’   Yaxley laughed jeeringly. Below, the fluffy silver cat patrolled up and down,  and the dementors stood waiting in the corners.   Itwas Umbridge’s lie that brought the blood surging into Harry’s brain and  obliterated his sense of caution—that the locket she had taken as a bribe from  a petty criminal was being used to holster her own pure-blood credentials. He  raisedhiswand,not even troublingtokeepit concealed beneaththe Invisibility  Cloak, and said, “Stupefy!”   Therewasa flashof red light; Umbridge crumpled and her forehead hit the  edge of the balustrade: Mrs. Cattermole’s papers slid off her lap onto the floor  and, down below, the prowling silver cat vanished. Ice-cold air hit them like an  oncoming wind: Yaxley, confused, looked around for the source of the trouble  andsawHarry’s disembodiedhandandwandpointingathim.Hetriedtodraw  his own wand, but too late: “Stupefy!”   Yaxley slid to the ground to lie curled on the flood.   “Harry!”   “Hermione,ifyou thinkI wasgoingtosithereandlether pretend—”   “Harry, Mrs. Cattermole!”   Harry whirled around, throwing off the Invisibility Cloak: down below, the  dementors had moved out of their corners: they were gliding toward the woman  chained to thechair: Whether because thePatronus had vanished or because  they sensed that their masters were no longer in control, they seemed to have  abandoned restraint. Mrs. Cattermole let out a terrible scream of fear as a  slimy, scabbed hand grasped her chin and forced her face back.   “EXPECTOPATRONUM!”   The silver stag soared from the tip of Harry’s wand and leaped toward the  dementors, whichfellbackand melted into the dark shadows again. The stag’s  light, more powerful and more warming than the cat’s protection, filed the  whole dungeon as it cantered around and around the room.   “Get the Horcrux,” Harry told Hermione.   He ran back down the steps, stuffing the Invisibility Cloak back into his   
 bag, and approached Mrs. Cattermole.   “You?” she whispered, gazing into his face. “But—but Reg said you were  the one who submitted my name for questioning!”   “Did I?” muttered Harry, tugging at the chains binding her arms.   “Well, I’ve hadachangeof heart. Diffindo!” Nothing happened. “Hermione,  howdoIgetridof thesechains?”   “Wait, I’m trying something up here—”   “Hermione, we’re surrounded by dementors!”   “I know that, Harry, but if she wakes up and the locket’s gone—I need to  replicate it—Geminio! There ... That should fool her. dots”   Hermione came running downstairs.   “Let’s see.... Relashio!”   The chains clinked and withdrew into the arms of the chair. Mrs. Cattermole  looked just as frightened as before.   “I don’t understand,” she whispered.   “You’re going to leave here with us,” said Harry, pulling her to her feet. “Go  home, grab your children, and get out, get out of the country if you’ve got to.  Disguise yourselvesand run.You’ve seenhowitis,youwon’tget anythinglike  a fair hearing here.”   “Harry,” said Hermione, “how are we going to get out of here with all those  dementors outside the door?”   “Patronuses,”saidHarry,pointinghiswandathisown:Thestagslowedand  walked, still gleaming brightly, toward the door. “As many as we can muster;  do yours, Hermione.”   “Expec—Expecto patronum,” said Hermione. Nothing happened.   “It’s the only spell she ever has trouble with,” Harry told a completely bemused  Mrs. Cattermole. “Bit unfortunate, really ... Come on, Hermione....  ”   “Expecto patronum!”   Asilver otterburst fromtheendof Hermione’swandandswam gracefully  through the air to join the stag.   
 228 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    “C’mon,” said Harry, and he led Hermione and Mrs. Cattermole to the door.   When thePatronuses glided out of the dungeon there were cries of shock  from the people waiting outside. Harry looked around: the dementors were  falling backon both sides of them, melding into the darkness, scattering before  the silver creatures.   “It’s been decided that you should all go home and go into hiding with your  families.” Harry told the waiting Muggle-borns, who were dazzled by the light  ofthePatronusesand still cowering slightly. “Go abroadifyou can. Justget  well away from the Ministry. That’s the—er—new official position. Now, if  you’lljust followthePatronuses,you’llbeabletoleavefromthe Atrium.”   They managed to get up the stone steps without being intercepted, but as  they approached the lifts Harry started to have misgivings. If they emerged  into the Atrium with a silver stag, an otter soaring alongside it, and twenty  or so people, half of them accused Muggleborns, he could not help feeling that  they would attract unwanted attention. He had just reached this unwelcome  conclusion when the lift clanged to a halt in front of them.   “Reg!” screamed Mrs. Cattermole, and she threw herself into Ron’s arms.  “Runcorn let me out, he attacked Umbridge andYaxley, and he’s told all of us  toleavethe country,Ithinkwe’dbetterdoit,Reg,Ireallydo,let’shurryhome  and fetchthe children and—why are you so wet?”   “Water,” muttered Ron, disengaging himself. “Harry, they know there are  intruders insidethe Ministry, something abouta holein Umbridge’soffice door.  Ireckon we’ve got five minutes of that—”   Hermione’sPatronus vanished witha pop as she turnedahorror struckface  to Harry.   “Harry, if we’re trapped here—!”   “We won’t be if we move fast,” said Harry. He addressed the silent group  behind them, who were all gawping at him.   “Who’s got wands?”   About half of them raised their hands.   “Okay,allofyouwhohaven’tgotwands needto attachyourselfto someone   
 whohas.We’llneedtobefast beforetheystopus.Comeon.”   They managed to cram themselves into two lifts. Harry’s Patronus stood  sentinel before the golden grilles as they shut and the lifts began to rise.   “Level eight,” said the cool witch’s voice, “Atrium.”   Harryknewat oncethatthey wereintrouble.The Atriumwasfullofpeople  moving from fireplace to fireplace, sealing them off.   “Harry!” squeaked Hermione. “What are we going to—?”   “STOP!” Harry thundered, and the powerful voice of Runcorn echoed through  the Atrium: The wizards sealing the fireplaces froze. “Follow me,” he whispered  to the group of terrified Muggleborns, who moved forward in a huddle,  shepherded by Ron and Hermione.   “What’s up, Albert?” said the same balding wizard who had followed Harry  out of the fireplace earlier. He looked nervous.   “This lot need to leave before you seal the exits,” said Harry with all the  authority he could muster.   The group of wizard sin front of him looked at one another.   “We’ve been told to seal all exits and not let anyone—”   “are you contradicting me?” Harry blustered. “Would youlike me to have  you family tree examined, likeIhad Dirk Cresswell’s?”   “Sorry!” gasped the balding wizard, backing away. “I didn’t mean nothing,  Albert,butIthought...Ithoughtthey wereinfor questioningand... ”   “Their blood is pure,” said Harry, and his deep voice echoed impressively  through the hall. “Purer than manyof yours.IdaresayOff yougo,”he boomed  to the Muggle-borns,who scurried forward into the fireplaces and began to vanish  in pairs. The Ministry wizards hung back, some looking confused, others  scared and resentful. Then:   “Mary!”   Mrs. Cattermole looked over her shoulder. The real Reg Cattermole, no  longer vomiting but pale and wan, and just come running out of a lift.   “R-Reg?”   She looked from her husband to Ron, who swore loudly.   
 230 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    The balding wizard gaped, his head turning ludicrously from one Reg Cattermole  to the other.   “Hey—what’s going on? What is this?”   “Seal the exit! SEAL IT!”   Yaxley had burst out of another lift and was running toward the group beside  the fireplaces into whichall of the Muggle-borns but Mrs. Cattermole had  now vanished. As the balding wizard lifted his wand, Harry raised an enormous  fist and punched him, sending him flying through the air.   “He’s been helping Muggle-borns escape,Yaxley!” Harry shouted.   The balding wizard’s colleagues set up an uproar, under cover of whichRon  grabbed Mrs. Cattermole, pulled her into the still-open fireplace, and disappeared.  Confused,Yaxley looked from Harry to the punched wizard, while the  realReg Cattermole screamed,“MyWife! Whowas thatwithmy wife? What’s  going on?”   Harry sawYaxley’s head turn, saw an inklingof truthdawnin that brutish  face.   “Come on!” Harry shouted at Hermione; he seized her hand and they  jumped into the fireplace together asYaxley’s curse sailed over Harry’s head.  They spun for a few seconds before shooting up out of a toilet into a cubicle.  Harry flung open the door: Ron was standing there beside the sinks, still  wrestling with Mrs. Cattermole.   “Reg,Idon’t understand—”   “Let go, I’m not your husband, you’ve got to go home!”   Therewasa noisein the cubicle behind them; Harry looked around:Yaxley  had just appeared.   “LET’S GO!” Harryyelled. He seized Hermioneby the hand and Ronby the  arm and turned on the spot.   Darkness engulfed them, along with the sensation of compressing hands,  but somethingwas wrong.... Hermione’shand seemedtobe slidingoutofhis  grip....   He wondered whetherhewasgoingto suffocate;he couldnot breatheor see   
 and the only solid things in the world were Ron’s arm and Hermione’s fingers,  which were slowly slippingaway....   And then he saw the door of number twelves, Grimmauld Place, with its  serpent door knocker, but beforehe could draw breath, therewasa scream and  a flash of purple light. Hermione’s hand was suddenly vicelike upon his hand  and everything went dark again.   
 232 CHAPTER  13.  THE  MUGGLE—BORN  REGISTRATION  COMMISSION    
 Chapter  14    The  Thief    H H arry opened his eyes and was dazzled by gold and green: he had  no idea what had happened, he only knew that he was lying on  what seemed to be leaves and twigs. Struggling to draw breath  into lungs that felt flattened, he blinked and realized that the gaudy glare  was sunlight streaming though a canopy of leaves far above him. Then an  object twitched close to his face. He pushed himself onto his hands and knees,  readytofacesomesmall,fierce creature,butsawthattheobjectwasRon’sfoot.  Looking around, Harry sawthat they and Hermione were lying onaforest floor,  apparently alone.   Harry’s first thoughtwasoftheForbiddenForrest,andfora moment, even  though eh knew how foolish and dangerous it would be for them to appear in  the grounds of Hogwarts, his heart leaped at the thought of sneaking through  the trees to Hagrid’s hut. However,in the few moments it took for Ron to give  a low groan and Harry to start crawling toward him, he realized that this was  not the Forbidden Forest: The trees looked younger, they were more widely  spaced, the ground clearer.   He met Hermione, also on her hands and knees,at Ron’shead. The moment  his eyes fell upon Ron, all other concerns fled Harry’s mind, for blood drenched  the whole of Ron’s left side and his face stood out, grayish-white, against the   233   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    leaf-strewn earth. ThePolyjuicePotionwas wearing off now: Ronwas halfway  between Cattermole and himself in appearance, his hair turning redder and  redder as his face drained of the little color it had left.   “What’s happened to him?”   “Splinched,” said Hermione, her fingers already busy at Ron’s sleeve, where  the blood was wettest and darkest.   Harry watched, horrified, as she tore open Ron’s shirt. He had always  thought of Splinching as something comical, but this ...His insides crawled  unpleasantly as Hermione laid bare Ron’s upper arm, where a great chunk of  flesh was missing, scooped cleanly away as though by a knife.   “Harry,quickly,inmybag,there’sasmall bottle labeled ‘Essenceof Dittany’—  ”   “Bag—right—’   Harry sped tot he place where Hermione had landed, seized the tiny beaded  bag, and thrust his hand inside it. At once, object after object began presenting  itself to his touch: He felt the leather spines of books,woolly sleeves of jumpers,  heels of shoes—   “Quickly!”   “He grabbed his wand from the ground and pointed it into the depths of the  magical bag.   “Accio Dittany!”   A small brown bottle zoomed out of the bag; he caught it and hastened  backto Hermione and Ron, whose eyes were now half—closed, strips of white  eyeball all that were visible between his lids.   “He’sfainted,” said Hermione whowas also rather pale; she no longer looked  like Mafalda, though her hair was still gray in places. “Unstopper it for me,  Harry, my hands are shaking.”   Harry wrenched the stopper off the little bottle,Hermione took it and poured  three drops of the potion onto the bleeding wound. Greenish smoke billowed  upward and when it had cleared, Harry saw that the bleeding had stopped.  The wound now looked several days old; new skin stretched over what had just   
 been open flesh.   “Wow,” said Harry.   “It’s all I feel safe doing,” said Hermione shakily. “There are spells that  would put him completely right, butIdaren’t try in caseIdo them wrong and  cause more damage.... He’s lost too muchblood already.... ”   “How did he get hurt? I mean”—Harry shook his head, trying to clear it,  to make sense of whatever had just taken place—“why are we here?Ithought  were were going backto Grimmauld Place?”   Hermione took a deep breath. She looked close to tears.   “Harry,Idon’t think we’regoingtobeabletogobackthere.”   “What d’you—?”   “Aswe Disapparated,YaxleycaughtholdofmeandIcouldn’tgetridofhim,  he was too strong, and he was still holding on when we arrived at Grimmauld  Place, and then—well, I think he must have seen the door, and thought we  were stopping there, so he slackened his grip andImanaged to shake him off  andIbrought us here instead!”   “But then, where’s he? Hang on.... You don’t mean he’s at Grimmauld  Place? He can’t get in there?”   Her eyes sparkled with unshed tears as she nodded.   “Harry,Ithinkhecan.I—IforcedhimtoletgowithaRevulsionJinx,butI’d  already taken him inside theFidelius Charm’s protection. Since Dumbledore  died, we’re Secret-Keepers, so I’ve given him the secret, haven’t I?”   There was no pretending; Harry was sure she was right. It was a serious  blow. If Yaxley could now get inside the house, there was no way that they  could return. Even now, he could be bringing other Death Eaters in there by  Apparition. Gloomy and oppressive though the house was, it had been their  one safe refuge: even, now that Kreacher was so muchhappier and friendlier,  a kind of home. With a twinge of regret that had nothing to do with food,  Harry imagined the house-elf busying himself over the steak-and-kidney pie  that Harry, Ron, and Hermione would never eat.   “Harry, I’m sorry, I’m so sorry!”   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    “Don’tbe stupid,itwasn’t your fault!If anything,itwas mine.... ”   Harry put his hand in his pocket and drew out Mad-Eye’s eye. Hermione  recoiled, looking horrified.   “Umbridge had stuckit to her office door, to spy on people. Icouldn’t leave  it there...but that’showtheyknew there were intruders.”   Before Hermione could answer, Ron groaned and opened his eyes. He was  still grayand his face glistened with sweat.   “How d’you feel?” Hermione whispered.   “Lousy,” croaked Ron, wincing as he felt his injured arm. ‘Where are we?”   “Inthewoodswheretheyheldthe QuidditchWorldCup,”said Hermione.“I  wanted somewhere enclosed, undercover, and this was—”   “—the first place you thought of,” Harry finished for her, glancing around  at the apparently deserted glade. He could not help remembering what had  happened the last time they had Apparated to the first place Hermione had  thought of—how Death Eaters had found them within minutes. Had it been  Legilimency? DidVoldemort or his henchmen know,even now,where Hermione  had taken them?   “D’you reckon we should move on?” Ron asked Harry, and Harry could tell  by the look on Ron’s face that he was thinking the same.   “I dunno.”   Ron still looked pale and clammy. He had made no attempt to sit up and it  looked as though he was too weak to do so. The prospect of moving him was  daunting.   “Let’s stayhere for now,” Harry said..   Looking relieved, Hermione sprang to her feet.   “Where are we going?’ asked Ron.   “If we’re staying, we should put some protective enchantments around the  place,” she replied, and raising her wand, she began to walk in a wide circle  around Harry and Ron, murmuring incantations as she went. Harry saw little  disturbances in the surrounding air: It was as if Hermione had cast a heat  haze upon their clearing.   
 “Salvio Hexia... ProtegoTotalum... Repello Muggletum... Muffliato ...You  couldgetoutthe tent,Harry... ”   “Tent?”   “In the bag!”   “In the ...of course,” said Harry.   He did no bother to grope inside it this time, but used another Summoning  Charm. The tent emerged in a lumpy mass of canvas, rope, and poles. Harry  recognized it, partly because of the smell of cats,as the same tent in whichthey  hadsleptonthenightofthe QuidditchWorldCup.   “I thought this belonged to that blokePerkins at the Ministry?” he asked,  starting to disentangle the tent pegs.   “Apparently he didn’t want it back, his lumbago’s so bad,” said Hermione,  now performing complicated figure-of-eight movements with herwand, “so Ron’s  dad saidIcould borrow it. Erecto!” she added, pointing her wand at the misshapen  canvas, which in one fluid motion rose into the air and settled, fully  constructed, onto the ground before Harry, out of whose started hands a tent  peg soared, to land with a final thud at the end of a guy rope.   “Cave Imunicium,” Hermione finished with a skyward flourish. “That’s as  much asI can do. At the very least, we should know they’re coming. I can’t  guaranteeit will keep ourVol—”   “don’t saythe name!” Ron cut across her, his voice harsh.   Harry and Hermione looked at eachother.   “I’m sorry,” Ron said, moaning a little as he raised himself to look at them,  “but it feels like a—a jinx or something. Can’t we call himYou-Know-Who—  please?”   “Dumbledore said fear of a name—” began Harry.   “In case you hadn’t noticed, mate,callingYou-Know-Whobyhis name didn’t  do Dumbledore much good in the end,” Ron snapped back. “Just—just show  You-Know-Who some respect, will you?”   “Respect?” Harry repeated, but Hermione shot him a warning look; apparently  he was not to argue with Ron while the latter was in such a weakened   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    condition.   Harry and Hermione half carried, half dragged Ron through the entrance  of the tent. The interior was exactly as Harry remembered it: a small flat,  complete with bathroom and tiny kitchen. He shoved aside an old armchair  and lowered Ron carefully onto the lower berth of a bunk bed. Even this very  short journey had turned Ron whiter still, and once they had settled him on  the mattress he closed his eyes again and did not speak for a while.   “I’ll make some tea,” said Hermione breathlessly, pulling kettle and mugs  from the depths of her bag and heading toward the kitchen.   Harry found the hot drink as welcome as the firewhisky had been on the  night that Mad-Eye had died; it seemed to burn away a little of the fear fluttering  in his chest. After a minute or two, Ron broke the silence.   “What d’you reckon happened to the Cattermoles?”   “With any luck, they’ll have got away,” said Hermione, clutching her hot  mug for comfort. “As long as Mr. Cattermole had his withs about him, he’ll have  transported Mrs. Cattermole by Side-Along-Apparition and they’ll be fleeing  the country right now with their children. That’s what Harry told her to do.”   “Blimey,I hope they escaped,” said Ron, leaning back on his pillows. The  tea seemed to be doing him good; a little of his color had returned. “I didn’t get  the feelingReg Cattermolewasallthatquick-witted, though,thewayeveryone  was talking to me whenI was him. God,Ihope they made it.... If they both  endupin Azkaban becauseofus... ”   Harry looked over at Hermione and the question he had wanted to ask—  about whetherMrs. Cattermole’slackofawand would preventher Apparating  alongside her husband—died in his throat. Hermione was watching Ron fret  over the fate of the Cattermoles, and there was suchtenderness in her expression  that Harry felt as if he had surprised her in the act of kissing him.   “so, have you got it?” Harry asked her, partly to remind her that he was  there.   “Got—got what?” she said with a little start.   “What did we just go through all that for? The locket! Where’s the locket?”   
 “You got it?” shouted Ron, raising himself a little higher on his pillow. “No  one tells me anything! Blimey, you could have mentioned it!”   “Well, we were running for our lives from the Death Eaters, weren’t we?”  said Hermione. “Here.”   And she pulled the locket out of the pocket of her robes and handed it to  Ron.   It was as large as a chicken’s egg. An ornate letter S, inlaid with many  small green stones,glinted dully in the diffused light shining through the tent’s  canvas roof.   “Thereisn’tanychance someone’sdestroyeditsinceKreacherhadit?” asked  Ron hopefully. “I mean, are we sure it’s still a Horcrux?”   “Ithinkso,”said Hermione,takingitbackfromhimandlookingatitclosely.  “there’dbe some sign of damage if it had been magically destroyed.”   She passed it to Harry, who turned it over in his fingers. The thing looked  perfect, pristine. He remembered the mangled remains of the diary, and how  the stone in the Horcrux ring had been cracked open when Dumbledore destroyed  it.   “I reckon Kreacher’s right,” said Harry. “We’re going to have to work out  how to open this thing before we can destroy it.”   Sudden awareness of what he was holding, of what lived behind the little  golden doors, hit Harry as he spoke. even after all their efforts to find it, he felt  a violent urge to fling the locket from him. Mastering himself again, he tried  to prise the locket apart with his fingers,then attempted thecharm Hermione  had used to open Regulus’s bedroom door. Neither worked. He handed the  locket back to Ron and Hermione, each of whom did their best, but were no  more successful at opening it than he had been.   “Can you feel it, though?” Ron asked in a hushed voice, as he held it tight  in his clenched fist.   “What d’you mean?”   Ron passed the Horcrux to Harry. After a moment or two, Harry thought  he knew what Ron meant.Wasit his own blood pulsing through his veins that   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    he could feel, or was it something beating inside the locket, like a tiny metal   heart?   “What are we going to do with it?” Hermione asked.   “Keep it safe till we work out how to destroy it.” Harry replied, and, little  though eh wanted to, he hung the chain around his own neck, dropping the  locket out of sight beneath his robes, where it rested against his chest beside  the pouchHagrid had given him.   “I thinkwe should takeitin turnstokeepwatchoutsidethe tent,”he added  to Hermione, standing up and stretching. “And we’ll need to think about some  foodaswell.Youstaythere,”headdedsharply, asRon attemptedtositupand  turned a nasty shade of green.   With the Sneakoscope Hermione had given Harry for his birthdayset carefully  upon the table in the tent, Harry and Hermione spent the rest of the  daysharing the role of lookout. However, the Sneakoscope remained silent and  still upon its point all day,and whether because of the protective enchantments  and Muggle-repelling charms Hermione had spread around them, or because  people rarely ventured this way, their patchof wood remained deserted, apart  from occasional birds and squirrels. Evening brought no change; Harry lit his  wand as he swapped places with Hermione at ten o’clock, and looked out upon  a deserted scene, nothing the bats fluttering high above him across the single  patchof starry sky visible from their protected clearing.   He felt hungry now, anda little light-headed. Hermione had not packed any  food in her magical bag, as she had assumed that they would be returning to  Grimmauld Place that night, so they had had nothing to eat except some wild  mushrooms that Hermione had collected from amongst the nearest trees and  stewed in a billycan. After a couple of mouthfuls Ron had pushed his portion  away, looking queasy: Harry had only persevered so as not to hurt Hermione’s  feelings.   The surrounding silencewas brokenbyodd rustlings and what sounded like  crackings of twigs: Harry thought that they were caused by animals rather  than people, yet he kept his wand held tight at the ready. His insides, already   
 uncomfortable due to their inadequate helping of rubbery mushrooms, tingled  with unease.   He had thought that he would feel elated if they managed to steal back  the Horcrux, but somehow he did not; all he felt as he sat looking out at the  darkness, of whichhis wand lit only a tiny part, was worry about what would  happen next. It was as though he had been hurtling toward this point for  weeks, months, maybe even years, but now he had come to an abrupt half, run  out of road.   There were other Horcruxes out there somewhere, but he did not have the  faintest idea where they could be. He did not even know what all of them were.  Meanwhile he was at a loss to know how to destroy the only one that they  had found, the Horcrux that currently layagainst the bare flesh of his chest.  Curiously, it had not taken heat from his body, but lay so cold against his skin  it might just have emerged from icy water. From time to time Harry thought,  or perhaps imagined, that he could feel the tiny heartbeat ticking irregularly  alongside his own.   Nameless forebodings crept upon him as he sat there in the dark. He tried  to resist them, push themaway, yet they came at him, relentlessly, Neither can  live while the other survives. Ron and Hermione, now talking softly behind him  in the tent, could walk awayif they wanted to: He could not. And it seemed  to Harry as he sat there trying to master his own fear and exhaustion, that  the Horcrux against hischestwas tickingawaythe timehe had left.... Stupid  idea, he told himself, don’t think that....   His scarwas startingtoprickleagain.Hewas afraidhewasmakingithappen  by having these thoughts, and tried to direct them into another channel.  He thought of poor Kreacher, who had expected them home and had received  Yaxley instead. Would the elf keep silent or would he tell the Death Eater everythinghe  knew? Harrywantedto believe that Kreacher hadchanged toward  him in the past month, that he would be loyal now, but who knew what would  happen? What if the Death Eaters tortured the elf? Sick images swarmed  into Harry’s head and he tried to push these away too, for these was nothing   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    he could do for Kreacher. He and Hermione had already decided against trying  to summon him; what if someonefrom the Ministry came too? They could  not count on elfish Apparition from being free of the same flaw that had taken  Yaxley to Grimmauld Place on the hem of Hermione’s sleeve.   Harry’s scar was burning now. He thought that there was so much they  did not know: Lupin had been right about magic they had never encountered  or imagined. Why hadn’t Dumbledore explained more? Had he thought that  there would be time; that he would live for years, for centuries, perhaps, like  his friend Nicolas Flamel? If so, he had been wrong.... Snape had seen to  that.... Snape,the sleeping snake,whohad struckatthetopofthe tower...   And Dumbledore had fallen ... fallen ...   “Give it to me, Gregorovitch.”   Harry’s voice was high, clear, and cold, his wand held in front of him by a  long-fingered white hand. The man at whom he was pointing was suspended  upside down in midair, though there were no ropes holding him; he swung  there, invisibly and eerily bound, his limbs wrapped about him, his terrified  face, on a level with Harry’s, ruddy due to the blood that had rushed to his  head. He had pure-white hair anda thick, bushy beard: a trussed-upFather  Christmas.   “Ihaveitnot,Ihaveitno more!Itwas,many yearsago, stolenfromme!”   “Do not lieto LordVoldemort, Gregorovitch. He knows.... He always  knows.”   The hanging man’s pupils were wide, dilated with fear, and they seemed to  swell, bigger and bigger until their blackness swallowed Harry whole—   And now Harry was hurrying along a dark corridor in stout little Gregorovitch’s  wake as he held a lantern aloft: Gregorovitch burst into the room  at the end of the passage and his lantern illuminated what looked like a workshop;  wood shavings and gold gleamed in the swinging pool of light, and there  on the window ledge sat perched, like a giant bird, a young man with golden  hair. In the split second that the lantern’s light illuminated him, Harry saw  the delight upon his handsome face, then the intruder shot a Stunning Spell   
 from his wand and jumped neatly backwards out of the window with a crow of  laughter.   And Harry was hurtling backout of those wide, tunnel-like pupils and Gregorovitch’s  face was stricken with terror.   “Who was the thief, Gregorovitch?” said the high cold voice.   “Ido not know,I never know, a young man—no—please—PLEASE!”   Ascream that went on and on and then a burst of green light—   “Harry!”   He opened his eyes, panting, his forehead throbbing. He had passed out  against the side of the tent, had slid sideways down the canvas, and was  sprawled on the ground. He looked up at Hermione,whose bushy hairobscured  the tiny patchof sky visible through the dark branches high above them.   “Dream,” he said, sitting up quickly and attempting to meet Hermione’s  glower with a look of innocence. ‘Must’ve dozed off, sorry.”   “I know it was your scar! I can tell by the look on your face! You were  looking intoVol—”   “Don’t sayhis name!” came Ron’s angry voice from the depths of the tent.   “Fine,” retorted Hermione. “You-Know-Who’smind, then!”   “I didn’t mean it to happen!” Harry said. “It was a dream! Can you control  what you dream about, Hermione?”   “If you just learned to apply Occlumency.   But Harry was not interested in being told off; he wanted to discuss what  he had just seen.   “He’s found Gregorovitch, Hermione, andIthink he’s killed him, but before  he killed himhe read Gregorovitch’s mind andI saw—”   “IthinkI’dbettertake overthewatchifyou’resotiredyou’re fallingasleep,”  said Hermione coldly.   “I can finish the watch!”   “No, you’re obviously exhausted. Go and lie down.”   She dropped down in the mouth of the tent, looking stubborn. Angry, but  wishing to avoid a row, Harry ducked backinside.   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    Ron’s still-pale face was poking out from the lower bunk; Harry climbed  into the one above him, lay down, and looked up at the dark canvas ceiling.  After several minutes, Ron spoke in a voice so low that it would not carry to  Hermione, huddled in the entrance.   “What’sYou-Know-Who doing?”   Harry screwed up his eyes in the effort to remember every detail, then whispered  into the darkness.   “He found Gregorovitch. He had him tied up, he was torturing him.”   “How’s Gregorovitchsupposed to make him a new wand if he’s tied up?”   “I dunno.... I’ts weird, isn’t it?”   Harry closed his eyes, thinking of all he had seen and heard. The more he  recalled,the less senseit made....Voldemorthad said nothing about Harry’s  wand, nothing about the twin cores, nothing about Gregorovitchmaking a new  and more powerfulwandto beat Harry’s....   “He wanted something from Gregorovitch,” Harry said, eyes still closed  tight. “He asked him to hand it over, but Gregorovitchsaid it had been stolen  fromhim...and then...then... ”   He remembered how he, asVoldemort, had seemed to hustle through Gregorovitch’s  eyes, into his memories....   “He read Gregorovitch’s mind, and I saw this young bloke perched on a  windowsill, and he fired a curse at Gregorovitchand jumped out of sight. He  stole it, he stole whateverYou-Know-Who’s after. AndI ...I think I’ve seen  him somewhere....”   Harry wished he could have another glimpse of the laughing boy’s face. The  theft had happened many years ago, according to Gregorovitch. Why did the  young thief look so familiar?   The noises of the surrounding woods were muffled inside the tent; all Harry  could hear was Ron’s breathing. After a while, Ron whispered, “Couldn’t you  see what the thief was holding?”   “No ...it must’ve been something small.”   “Harry?”   
 The wooden slats of Ron’s bunk creaked as he repositioned himself in bed.   “Harry, you don’t reckonYou-Know-Who’s after something else to turn into  a Horcrux?”   “I don’t know,” said Harry slowly, “Maybe. But wouldn’t it be dangerous for  him to make another one? didn’t Hermione sayhe had pushed his soul to the  limit already?”   “Yeah, but maybe he doesn’t know that.”   “Yeah...maybe,” said Harry.   He had been sure that Voldemort had been looking for a way around the  problemofthetwin cores, surethatVoldemortsoughta solutionfromtheold  wandmaker ...andyethehad killedhim, apparently without askinghima  single question about wandlore.   WhatwasVoldemorttryingtofind? Why,withthe MinistryofMagicand  theWizarding worldathis feet,washefaraway, intentonthe pursuitofan  object that Gregorovitch had once owned, and which had been stolen by the  unknown thief?   Harrycouldstillseethe blond-hairedyouth’sface;itwasmerry,itwaswild;  therewasaFredand George-ishairof triumphanttrickeryabouthim.Hehad  soared from the windowsill like a bird, and Harry had seen him before, but he  could not think where....   With Gregorovitch dead, it was the merry-faced thief who was in danger  now, and it was on him that Harry’s thoughts dwelled, as Ron’s snores began  to rumble from the lower bunk and as he himself drifted slowly into sleep once  more.   
 CHAPTER  14.  THE  THIEF    
 Chapter  15    The  Goblin’s  Revenge    E E arly next morning, before the other two wereawake,Harry left the  tent to searchthe woods around them for the oldest, most gnarled,  and resilient—looking tree he could find. There in its shadow he  buried Mad-Eye Moody’s eye and marked the spot by gouging a small cross in  the bark with his wand. It was not much, but Harry felt that Mad-Eye would  have muchpreferred this to being stuck on Dolores Umbridge’s door. Then he  returned to the tent to wait for the others to wake, and discuss what they were  going to do next.   Harryand Hermionefeltthatitwasbestnottostayanywheretoolong,and  Ron agreed, with the sole proviso that their next move took them within reach  of a bacon sandwich. Hermione therefore removed the enchantments she had  placed around theclearing, while Harry and Ron obliterated all the marks and  impressions on the ground that might show that they had camped there. Then  they Disapparated to the outskirts of a small market town.   Once they had pitched the tent in the shelter of a small copse of trees and  surrounded it with freshly cast defensive enchantments, Harry ventured out  under the Invisibility Cloak to find sustenance. This, however, did not go as  planned. He had barely entered the town when an unnatural chill, a descending  mist, anda sudden darkeningof the skies made him freeze wherehe stood.   247   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    “But you can makea brilliantPatronus!” protested Ron, when Harry arrived  back at the tent empty-handed, out of breath, and mouthing the single  word, dementors.   “I couldn’t...makeone,”hepanted,clutchingthestitchinhisside.“Wouldn’t  come.”   Their expressions of consternation and disappointment made Harry feel  ashamed. It had been a nightmarish experience, seeing the dementors gliding  out of the mist in the distance and realizing, as the paralyzing cold choked his  lungs and a distant screaming filled his ears, that he was not going to be able  to protect himself. It had taken all Harry’s will power to uproot himself from  the spot and run, leavingthe eyeless dementors to glide amongst the Muggles  who might not be able to see them, but would assuredly feel the despair they  cast wherever they went.   “so we still haven’t got any food.”   “Shut up, Ron,” snapped Hermione. “Harry, what happened? Why do you  think you couldn’t make yourPatronus?You managed perfectly yesterday ”   “I don’t know.”   HesatlowinoneofPerkins’sold armchairs, feeling more humiliatedbythe  moment.Hewasafraidthat somethinghadgonewronginsidehim.Yesterday  seemed a long time ago. Todayhe might have been thirteen years old again,  the only one who collapsed on the Hogwarts Express.   Ron kicked a chair leg.   “What?” he snarled at Hermione. “I’m starving! All I’ve had sinceI bled  half to death is a couple of toadstools!”   “Yougoandfightyourwaythroughthe dementors,then,”saidHarry,stung.   “I would, but my arm’s in a sling, in case you hadn’t noticed!”   “That’s convenient.”   “And what’s that supposed to—?”   “Of course!” cried Hermione, clapping a hand to her forehead and startling  both of them into silence. “Harry, give me the locket! Come on,” she said  impatiently, clicking her fingers at him, when he did not react, “the Horcrux,   
 Harry, you’re still wearing it!”   She held out her hands, and Harry lifted the golden chain over his head.  The moment it parted contact with Harry’s skin he felt free and oddly light. He  had not even realized that he was clammy or that there was a heavy weight  pressing on his stomachuntil both sensations lifted.   “Better?” asked Hermione.   “Yeah, loads better!”   “Harry,” she said, crouching down in front of him and using the kind of  voice he associated with visiting the very sick, “you don’t think you’ve been  possessed, do you?”   “What? No!” he said defensively. “I remember everything we’ve done while  I’ve been wearing it.Iwouldn’t know whatI’ddoneifI’dbeen possessed, would  I? Ginny told me there were times when she couldn’t remember anything.’   “Hmm,” said Hermione, looking down at the heavy gold locket.   “Well,maybeweoughtnotto wearit.Wecanjustkeepitatthe tent.”   “We are not leaving that Horcrux lying around,” Harry stated firmly. “If we  lose it, if it gets stolen—”   “Oh, all right, all right,” said Hermione, and she placed it around her own  neckand tucked it out of sight down the front of her shirt. “But we’ll take turns  wearing it, so nobody keeps it on for too long.”   “Great,” said Ron irritably, “and now we’ve sorted that out, can we please  get some food?”   “Fine, but we’ll go somewhere else to find it,” said Hermione with half a  glance at Harry. “There’s no point staying where we know dementors are  swooping around.”   In the end they settled down for the night in a far flung field belonging to a  lonely farm, from whichthey had managed to obtain eggs and bread.   “It’s not stealing, is it?” asked Hermione in a troubled voice, as they devoured  scrambled eggs on toast. “NotifI left some money under thechicken  coop?”   Ron rolled his eyes and said, with his cheeks bulging, “’Er—my—nee, ’oo   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    worry ’oo much. ‘Elax!”   And, indeed, it was mucheasier to relax when they were comfortably well  fed. The argument about the dementors was forgotten in the laughter that  night, and Harry felt cheerful, even hopeful as he took the first of the three  night watches.   This was their encounter with the fact that a full stomachmeant good spirits;  an empty one, bickering and gloom. Harry was least surprised by this,  because he had suffered periods of near starvation at the Dursleys. Hermione  bore up reasonably well on those nights when they managed to scavenge nothing  but berries or stale biscuits, her temper perhaps a little shorter than usual  and her silences rather dour. Ron, however, had always been used to three delicious  meals a day, courtesy of his mother or of the Hogwarts house-elves, and  hunger made him both unreasonable and irascible. Whenever lackof food coincided  with Ron’s turn to wear the Horcrux, he became downright unpleasant.   “So where next?” was his constant refrain. He did not seem to have any  ideas himself, but expected Harry and Hermione to come up with plans while  he sat and brooded over the low food supplies. Accordingly Harry and Hermione  spent fruitless hours trying to decide where they might find the other Horcruxes,  and how to destroy the one they had already got, their conversations  becoming increasingly repetitive as they had no new information.   As Dumbledore had told Harry that he believedVoldemort had hidden the  Horcruxes in places important to him, they kept teching, in a sort of dreary  litany, those locations they knew thatVoldemort had lived or visited. The orphanage  where he had been born and raised; Hogwarts, where he had been  educated; Borgin and Burkes, where he had worked after completing school;  then Albania, where he had spent his years of exile: These formed the basis of  their speculations.   “Yeah, let’s go to Albania. Shouldn’t take more than an afternoon to search  an entire country,” said Ron sarcastically.   “There can’t be anything there. He’d already made five of his Horcruxes  before he went into exile, and Dumbledore was certain the snake is the sixth,”   
 said Hermione.“Weknowthe snake’snotin Albania,it’s usuallywithVol—”   “Didn’tIask you to stop saying that?”   “Fine! The snake is usually with You-Know-Who—happy?”   “Not particularly.”   “I can’t see him hiding anything at Borgin and Burkes,” said Harry, who  made this point many times before, but said it again simply to break the nasty  silence. “Borgin and Burke were experts at Dark objects, they wouldn’t recognized  a Horcrux straightaway.”   Ronyawned pointedly. Repressingastrongurgetothrow somethingathim,  Harry plowed on, “I still reckon he might have hidden something at Hogwarts.”   Hermione sighed.   “But Dumbledore would have found it, Harry!”   Harry repeated the argument he kept bringing out in favor of this theory.   “Dumbledore said in front of me that he never assumed he knew all of Hogwarts’s  secrets. I’m telling you,if therewas one placeVol—”   “oi!”   “YOU-KNOW-WHO, then!” Harry shouted, goaded past endurance. “If  therewas one place thatwas really importanttoYou-Know-Who,itwasHogwarts!”    “Oh, come on,” scoffed Ron. “His school?”   “Yeah, his school! It was his first real home, the place that meant he was  special: it meant everything to him, and even after he left—” inquired Ron. He  was tugging at the chain of the Horcrux around his neck: Harry was visited by  a desire to seize it and throttle him.   “You toldus thatYou-Know-Who asked Dumbledoretogivehimajob after  he left,” said Hermione.   “That’s right,” said Harry.   “And Dumbledore thoughtheonlywantedto comebacktotryandfind something,  probably another founder’s object, to make into another Horcrux?”   “Yeah,” said Harry.   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    “But he didn’t get the job, did he?” said Hermione. “So he never got the  chance to find a founder’s object there and hide it in the school!”   “Okay, then,” said Harry, defeated. “Forget Hogwarts.”   Without any other leads, they traveled into London and, hidden beneath  the InvisibilityCloak, searchedforthe orphanageinwhichVoldemorthadbeen  raised. Hermione stole intoalibrary and discovered from their records that the  place had been demolished many years before. They visited its site and found  a tower blockof offices.   “We could try digging in the foundations?” Hermione suggested halfheartedly.    “He wouldn’t have hidden a Horcrux here,” Harry said. He had known all  along: The orphanage had been the placeVoldemort had been determined to  escape; he would never have hidden a part of his soul there. Dumbledore had  shownHarrythatVoldemortsought grandeuror mystiqueinhishidingplaces;  this dismal gray corner of London was as far removed as you could imagine  from Hogwarts or the Ministry or a building like Gringotts, the Wizarding  bank, with its golden doors and marble floors.   Even without any new ideas, they continued to move through the countryside,  pitching the tent in a different place eachnight for security. Every morning  they made sure that they had removed all clues to their presence, then set  off to find another lonely and secluded spot, traveling by Apparition to more  woods, to the shadowy crevices of cliffs, to purple moors, gorse-covered mountainsides,  and once a sheltered a pebbly cove. Every twelves hours or so they  passed the Horcrux between them as though they were playing some perverse,  slow-motion game of pass-the-parcel, where they dreaded the music stopping  because the reward was twelve hours of increased fear and anxiety.   Harry’s scar kept prickling. It happened most often, he noticed, when he  was wearing the Hocrux. Sometimes he could not stop himself reacting to the  pain.   “What? What did you see?” demanded Ron, whenever he noticed Harry  wince.   
 “Aface,” muttered Harry, every time. “The same face. The thief who stole  from Gregorovitch.”   And Ron would turn away, making no effort to hide his disappointment.  Harry knew that Ron was hoping to hear news of his family or of the rest of  the Order of the Phoenix, but after all, he, Harry, was not a television aerial;  he could only see what Voldemort was thinking at the time, not tune in to  whatever took his fancy. ApparentlyVoldemortwas dwelling endlessly on the  unknown youth with the gleeful face, whose name and whereabouts, Harry felt  sure,Voldemortknewno betterthanhedid.AsHarry’s scar continuedtoburn  andthe merry, blond-hairedbyswam tantalizinglyinhis memory,he learned  to suppress any sign of pain or discomfort, for the other two showed nothing  but impatience at the mention of the thief. He could not entirely blame them,  when they were so desperate for a lead on the Horcruxes.   As the days stretched into weeks, Harry began to suspect that Ron and  Hermione were having conversations without, and about, him. Several times  they stopped talking abruptly when Harry entered the tent, and twice he came  accidentally upon them, huddled a little distance away, heads together and  talking fast; both times they fell silent when they realized he was approaching  them and hastened to appear busy collecting wood or water.   Harry could not help wondering whether they had only agreed to come on  what now felt like a pointless and rambling journey because they thought he  had some secret plan that they would learn in due course. Ron was making  no effort to hide his bad mood, and Harry was starting to fear that Hermione  too was disappointed by his poor leadership. In desperation he tried to think  of further Horcrux locations, but the only one that continued to occur to him  was Hogwarts, and as neither of the other thought this at all likely, he stopped  suggesting it.   Autumn rolled over the countryside as they moved through it. They were  now pitching the tent on mulches of fallen leaves. Natural mists joined those  cast by the dementors: wind and rain added to their troubles. The fact that  Hermione was getting better at identifying edible fungi could not altogether   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    compensate for their continuing isolation, thelackof other people’s company,  or their total ignoranceofwhatwasgoingoninthewar againstVoldemort.   “My mother,” said Ron one night, as they sat in the tent on a riverbank in  Wales, “can make good fear appear out of thin air.”   He prodded moodily at the lumps of charred grayfish on his plate. Harry  glanced automatically at Ron’s neck and saw, as he had expected, the golden  chain of the Horcrux glinting there. He managed to fight down the impulse to  swear at Ron, whose attitude, he knew, improve slightly when the time came  to take off the locket.   “Your mother can’t produce food out of thin air,” said Hermione. “No one can.  Food is one of the first of five Principal Exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental  Transfigur—’   “Oh, speak English, can’t you?” Ron said, prising a fish bone out from between  his teeth.   “It’s impossibletomakegoodfoodoutof nothing!Youcan Summonitifyou  know where it is, you can transform it, you can increase the quantity if you’ve  already got some—”   “Well, don’t bother increasing this, it’s disgusting,” said Ron.   “Harry caught the fish andIdidmy best with it!Inotice I’m always the one  who ends up sorting out the food, because I’m a girl,Isuppose!”   “No, it’s because you’re supposed to be the best at magic!” shot backRon.   Hermione jumped up and bits of roast pike slid off her tin plate onto the  floor.   “You can do the cooking tomorrow, Ron, you can find the ingredients and try  and charm them into something worth eating, and I’ll sit here and pull faces  and moan and you can see how you—”   “Shut up!” said Harry, leaping to his feet and holding up both hands. “Shut  up now!”   Hermione looked outraged.   “How can you side with him, he hardly ever does the cook—”   “Hermione,be quiet,I can hear someone!”   
 He was listening hard, his hands still raised, warning them not to talk.  Then, over the rush and gush of the dark river beside them, he heard voices  again. He looked around at the Sneakoscope. It was not moving.   “You cast the Muffliato charm over us, right?” he whispered to Hermione.   “I did everything,” she whispered back, “Muffliato, Muggle-Repelling and  Disillusionment Charms, all of it. They shouldn’t be able to hear or see us,  whoever they are.”   Heavy scuffling and scraping noises, plus the sound of dislodged stones and  twigs told them that several people were clambering down the steep, wooded  slope that descended to the narrow bank where they had pitched the tent. They  drew their wands, waiting. The enchantments they had cast around themselves  ought to be sufficient, ion the near total darkness, to shield them from  the notice of Muggles and normal witches and wizards. If these were Death  Eaters, then perhaps their defenses were about to be tested by Dark Magic for  the first time.   The voices became louder but no more intelligible as the group of men  reached the bank. Harry estimated that their owners were fewer than twenty  feetaway,butthe cascadingrivermadeit impossibletotellfor sure. Hermione  snatchedupthebeadedbagand startedtorummage;aftera momentshedrew  out three Extendable Ears and threw one eachto Harry and Ron, who hastily  inserted the ends of the flesh-colored strings into their ears and fed the other  ends out of the tent entrance.   Within second Harry heard a weary male voice.   “There ought to be a few salmon in here, or d’you reckon it’s too early in the  season? Accio Salmon!”   There were several distinct splashes and then the slapping sounds of fish  against flesh. Somebody grunted appreciatively, Harry pressed the Extendable  Ear deeper into his own: Over the murmur of the river he could make out more  voices, bu they were not speaking English or any human language he had ever  heard. It was a rough and unmelodious tongue, a string of rattling, guttural  noises, and there seemed to be two speakers, one with a slightly lower, slower   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    voice than the other.   Afire danced into life on the other side of the canvas; large shadows passed  between tent and flames. The delicious smell of baking salmon wafted tantalizingly  in their direction. Then came the clinking of cutlery on plates, and the  first man spoke again.   “Here, Griphook, Gornuk.”   Goblins! Hermione mouthed at Harry, who nodded.   “Thank you,” said the goblins together in English.   “So,you three been on the run how long?” askedanew,mellow,and pleasant  voice; it was vaguely familiar to Harry, who pictured a round-bellied, cheerful- faced man.   “Six weeks... seven...Iforget,” said the tired man. “Metup with Griphook  in the first couple of days and joined forces with Gornuk not long after. Nice  to have a bit of company.” There was a pause, while knives scraped plates and  tin mugs were picked up and replaced on the ground. “What made you leave,  Ted?” continued the man.   “Knew they were coming for me,” replied mellow-voiced Ted, and Harry  suddenly knew who he was: Tonks’s father. “Heard Death Eaters were in the  arealastweekand decidedI’dbetterrunforit. RefusedtoregisterasaMugglebornon  principle, see, soIknewitwasa matteroftime,knewI’dhavetoleave  in the end. My wife should be okay, she’s pure-blood. And thenImeant Dean  where, what, a few days ago, son?”   “Yeah,” said another voice, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at each  other, silent but beside themselves with excitement, sure they recognized the  voice of Dean Thomas, their fellow Gryffindor.   “Muggle-born, eh?” asked the first man.   “Not sure,” said Dean. “Mydad leftmy mum whenI wasa kid. I’vegotno  proof he was a wizard, though.”   Therewas silencefora while, exceptforthe soundsof munching; thenTed  spoke again.   I’ve got to say, Dirk, I’m surprised to run into you. Pleased, but surprised.   
 Word was you’dbeen caught.”   “Iwas,” said Dirk. “Iwas halfway to Azkaban whenImadea breakfor it.  StunnedDawlish,andnickedhis broom.Itwas easierthanyou’dthink;Idon’t  think he’s quite at the moment. Might be Confunded. If so, I’d like to shake  the hand of the witch or wizard who did it, probably saved my life.”   There was another pause in which the fire crackled and the river rushed  on. ThenTed said, “And where do you two fit in? I, er, had the impression the  goblins were forYou-Know-Who, on the whole.”   “Youhadafalse impression,”saidthehighervoicedofthegoblins.“Wetake  no sides. This is a wizards’ war.”   “How come you’re in hiding, then?”   ‘I deemed it prudent,” said the deeper-voiced goblin. “Having refused what  Iconsidered an impertinent request,I could see thatmy personal safetywas  in jeopardy.”   “What did they ask you to do?” askedTed.   “Duties ill-befitting the dignity of my race,” replied the goblin, his voice  rougher and less human as he said it. “I am not a house-elf.”   “What about you, Griphook?”   “Similar reasons,” said the higher voiced goblin. “Gringotts is no longer  under the sole controlofmy race.Irecognize noWizarding master.”   He added something under his breath in Gobbledegook, and Gornuk laughed.   “What’s the joke?” asked Dean.   “He said,” replied Dirk, “that there are things wizards don’t recognize, either.”    There was a short pause.   “I don’t get it,” said Dean.   “I hadmy small revenge beforeIleft,” said Griphookin English.   “Good man—goblin,Ishould say,” amendedTed hastily. “Didn’t manage to  lock a Death Eaterupin oneof the old high-security vaults,Isuppose?”   “IfIhad,theswordwouldnothavehelpedhimbreakout,”replied Griphook.  Gornuk laughed again and even Dirk gave a dry chuckle.   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    “Dean andI are still missing something here,” saidTed.   “So is Severus Snape, though he does not know it,” said Griphook, and the  two goblins roared with malicious laughter. Inside the tent Harry’s breathing  was shallow with excitement: He and Hermione stared at eachother, listening  as hard as they could.   “didn’t you hear about that,Ted?” asked Dirk. “About the kid who tried to  steal Gryffindor’s sword out of Snape’s office at Hogwarts?”   And electric current seemed to curse through Harry, jangling his every  nerve as he stood rooted to the spot.   “Never hearda word,” saidTed. “Notin the Prophet, was it?”   “Hardly,” chortled dirk. “Griphook here told me, he heard about it from Bill  Weasley who works for the bank. One of the kids who tried to take the sword  was Bill’s younger sister.”   Harry glanced toward Hermione and Ron, both of whom were clutching the  Extendable Ears as tightly as lifelines.   “She and a couple of friends got into Snape’s office and smashed open the  glass case where he was apparently keeping the sword. Snape caught them as  they were trying to smuggle it down the staircase.”   “Ah, God bless ’em,” saidTed. “What did they think, that they’dbe able to  use the sword onYou-Know-Who? Or on Snape himself?”   “Well, whatever they thought they were going to do with it, Snape decided  the sword wasn’t safe where it was,” said Dirk. “Couple of days later, once he’d  gotthesay-sofromYou-Know-Who,Iimagine,hesentitdownto Londontobe  kept in Gringotts instead.”   The goblins started to laugh again.   “I’m still not seeing the joke,” saidTed.   “It’s a fake,” rasped Griphook.   “The sword of Gryffindor!”   “Oh yes. Itisa copy-an excellent copy,itis true-butitwasWizard-made.  The original was forged centuries ago by goblins and had certain properties  only goblin-made armor possesses. Wherever the genuine sword of Gryffindor   
 is, it is not in a vault at Gringotts bank.”   “I see,” saidTed. “AndItake it you didn’t bother telling the Death Eaters  this?”   “I saw no reason to trouble them with the information,” said Griphook  smugly, and nowTed and Dean joined in Gornuk and Dirk’s laughter.   Inside the tent, Harry closed his eyes, willing someone to ask the question  he needed answered, and aftera minute that seemed ten, Dean obliged: hewas  (Harry remembered with a jolt) an ex-boyfriend of Ginny’s too.   “What happened to Ginny and the others? The ones who tried to steal it?”   “Oh, they were punished, and cruelly,” said Griphook indifferently.   “They’re okay, though?” askedTed quickly. “I mean, theWeasley don’t need  any more of their kids injured, do they?”   “They suffered no serious injury, as far asI amaware,” said Griphook.   “Lucky for them,” saidTed. “With Snape’s trackrecordIsuppose we should  just be glad they’re still alive.”   “You believe that story, then, do you,Ted?” asked Dirk. “You believe Snape  killed Dumbledore?”   “CourseIdo,” saidTed. “you’re not going to sit there and tell me you think  Potter had anything to do with it?”   “Hard to know what to believe these days,” muttered Dirk.   “I know HarryPotter,” said Dean. “AndI reckon he’s the real thing—The  Chosen One, or whatever you want to call it.”   “Yeah, there’s a lot would like to believe he’s that, son,” said Dirk, me included.  But where is he? Run for it, by the looks of things. You’dthink if he  knew anything we don’t, or had anything special going for him, he’d be out  there now fighting, rallying resistance, instead of hiding. And you know, the  Prophet made a pretty good case against him—”   “The Prophet?” scoffedTed.“You deservedtobe liedtoif you’re still reading  that muck, Dirk.Youwantthe facts,trythe Quibbler.”   There was a sudden explosion of choking and retching, plus a good deal  of thumping; by the sound of it, Dirk had swallowed a fish bone. At last he   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    spluttered, “The Quibbler?That lunatic rag of Xeno Lovegood’s?”   “It’s not so lunatic thesedays,” saidTed. “youwan tot giveita look. Xenois  printing all the stuff the Prophet’s ignoring, not a single mention of Crumple- Horned Snorkacks in the last issue. How long they’ll let you get away with  it, mind,Idon’t know. ButXeno says, front page of every issue, that any wizard  who’s against You-Know-Who ought to make helping Harry Potter their  number-one priority.”   “Hard to help a boy who’s vanished off the face of the earth,” said Dirk.   “Listen, the fact that they haven’t caught him yet’s one hell of an achievement,” saidTed.“I’dtaketipfromhim gladly;It’swhatwe’retryingtodo,stay  free, isn’t it?”   “Yeah, well, you’ve got a point there,” said Dirk heavily. “With the whole of  the Ministry and all their informers looking for him I’dhave expected him to  be caught by now. Mind, who’s to saythey haven’t already caught and killed  him without publicizing it?”   “Ah, don’t saythat, Dirk,” murmuredTed.   There was a long pause filled with more clattering of knives and forks.  When they spoke again it was to discuss whether they ought to sleep on the  bank or retreat backup the wooded slope. Deciding the trees would give better  cover, they extinguished their fire, then clambered back up the incline, their  voices fading away.   Harry, Ron, and Hermione reeled in the Extendable Ears. Harry, who had  found the need to remain silent increasingly difficult the longer they eavesdropped,  now found himself unable to say more than, “Ginny—the sword—”   “I know!” said Hermione.   She lunged for the tiny beaded bag, this time sinking her arm in it right up  to the armpit.   “Here...we...are ... ”shesaid betweengrittedteeth,andshepulledat  something that was evidently in the depths of the bag. Slowly the edge of an  ornate picture frame came into sight. Harry hurried to help her. As they lifted  the empty portrait of Phineas Nigellus free of Hermione’s bag, she kept her   
 wand pointing at it, ready to cast a spell at any moment.   “If somebody swapped the real sword for the fake while it was in Dumbledore’s  office,” she panted, as they propped the painting against the side of the  tent, “Phineas Nigellus would have seen it happen, he hangs right beside the  case!”   “Unlesshewasasleep,”saidHarry,buthestillheldhisbreathas Hermione  knelt down in the front of the empty canvas, her wand directed at its center,  cleared her throat, then said:   “Er—Phineas? Phineas Nigellus?”   Nothing happened.   “Phineas Nigellus?” said Hermione again. “Professor Black? Please could  we talk to you? Please?”   “‘Please’ always helps,” saida cold, snide voice, andPhineas Nigellus slid  into his portrait. At once, Hermione cried:   “Obscura!”   Ablackblindfold appeared over Phineas Nigellus’s clever, dark eyes, causing  him to bump into the frame and shriek with pain.   “What—how dare—what are you—?”   “I’m very sorry, Professor Black,” said Hermione, “but it’s a necessary precaution!”    “Remove this foul addition at once! Remove it, I say! You are ruining a  great work of art! Where am I? What is going on?”   “Never mind where we are,” said Harry, and Phineas Nigellus froze, abandoning  his attempts to peel off the painted blindfold.   “Canthat possiblybethe voiceofthe elusiveMr.Potter?”   “Maybe,” said Harry,knowing that this would keep Phineas Nigellus’sinterest.“ We’vegotacoupleof questionstoask you—aboutthe swordof Gryffindor.”   “Ah,” said Phineas Nigellus, now turning his head this wayand that in an  effort to catchsight of Harry, “yes. That silly girl acted most unwisely there—”   “Shut up about my sister,” said Ron roughly. Phineas Nigellus raised supercilious  eyebrows.   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    “Who else is here?” he asked, turning his head from side to side. “Your  tone displeases me! The girl and her friends were foolhardy in the extreme.  Thieving from the headmaster.”   “They weren’t thieving,” said Harry. “That sword isn’t Snape’s.”   “It belongs to Professor Snape’s school,” said Phineas Nigellus. “Exactly  whatclaim did theWeasley girlhave upon it? She deserved his punishment,  as did the idiot Longbottom and the Lovegood oddity!”   “Neville is not an idiot and Luna is not an oddity!” said Hermione.   “Where am I?” repeated Phineas Nigellus,starting to wrestle with the blindfold  again. “Where have you brought me? Why have you removed me from the  house of my forebears?”   “Never mind that! How did Snape punish Ginny, Neville, and Luna?” asked  Harry urgently.   “Professor Snape sent them into theForbiddenForest, to do some work for  the oaf, Hagrid.”   “Hagrid’s not an oaf!” said Hermione shrilly.   “And Snape might’ve thought that was a punishment,” said Harry, “but  Ginny, Neville, and Luna probably hada good laugh with Hagrid. TheForbiddenForest  ... they’ve faced plenty worse than theForbiddenForest, big deal!”   He felt relieved: he had been imagining horrors, the Cruciatus Curse at the  very least.   “What we really wanted to know, Professor Black, is whether anyone else  has, um, taken out the sword at all? Maybe it’s been taken awayfor cleaning  or—or something?”   Phineas Nigellus paused again in his struggles to free his eyes and sniggered.    “Muggle-borns,” he said. “Goblin-made armor does not require cleaning,  simple girl. Goblins’ silver repels mundane dirt, imbibing only that which  strengthens it.”   “Don’t call Hermione simple,” said Harry.   “I grow weary of contradiction,” said Phineas Nigellus. “Perhaps it is time   
 for me to return to the headmaster’s office?”   Still blindfolded, eh began groping the side of his frame, trying to feel a  wayout of his picture and backinto the one at Hogwarts. Harry had a sudden  inspiration.   “Dumbledore! Can’t you bring us Dumbledore?”   “I beg you pardon?” asked Phineas Nigellus.   “Professor Dumbledore’s portrait—couldn’t you bring him along, here, into  yours?”   Phineas Nigellus turned his face in the direction of Harry’s voice.   “Evidentlyitis not only Muggle-borns whoa reignorant,Potter. The portraits  of Hogwarts maycommune with eachother,but they cannot ravel outside  the castle except to visit a painting of themselves hanging elsewhere. Dumbledore  cannot come here with me, and after the treatmentI have received at  your hands,I can assure you thatIshall notbe makinga return visit!”   Slightly crestfallen, Harry watched Phineas redouble his attempts to leave  his frame.   “Professor Black,” said Hermione, “couldn’t you just tell us, please, when  was the last time the swordwas taken outof its case? Before Ginny tookit out,  Imean?”   Phineas snorted impatiently.   “I believethelasttimeIsawtheswordof Gryffindorleaveitscasewaswhen  Professor Dumbledore used it to break open a ring.”   Hermione whipped around to look at Harry. Neither of them dared saymore  in front of Phineas Nigellus, who had at last managed to locate the exit.   “Well, good night to you,” he said a little waspishly, and he began to move  out of sight again. Only the edge of his hat brim remained in view when Harry  gave a sudden shout.   “Wait! Have you told Snape you saw this?”   Phineas Nigellus stuckhis blindfolded head backinto the picture.   “Professor Snape has more important things on his mind than the many  eccentricities of Albus Dumbledore. Good-bye,Potter!”   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    And with that;, he vanished completely, leaving behind him nothing but his  murky backdrop.   “Harry!” Hermione cried.   “I know!” Harry shouted. Unable to contain himself, he punched the air:  it was more than he had dared to hope for. He strode up and down the tent,  feeling that he could have run a mile: he did not even feel hungry anymore.  Hermione was squashing Phineas Nigellus’s portrait backinto the beaded bag,  whenshehad fastened theirclaspshe threwthebag asideand raisedashining  face to Harry.   “The sword can destroy Horcruxes! Goblin-made blades imbibe only that  which can strengthen them—Harry, that sword’s impregnated with basilisk  venom!”   “And Dumbledore didn’t give it to me because he still needed it, he wanted  to use it on the locket—”   “—and he must have realized they wouldn’t let you have it if he put in his  will—”   “—so he made a copy—”   “—and put a fake in the glass case—”   “—and he left the real one—where?”   They gazed at eachother: Harry felt the answer was dangling invisibly in  the air above them, tantalizingly close. Why hadn’t Dumbledore told him? Or  had he, in fact, told Harry, but Harry had not realized it at the time?   “Think!” whispered Hermione. “Think! Where would he have left it?”   “Not at Hogwarts,” said Harry, resuming his pacing.   “Somewhere in Hogsmeade?” suggested Hermione.   “The Shrieking Shack?” said Harry. “Nobody ever goes in there.”   But Snape knows how to get in, wouldn’t that be a bit risky?”   Dumbledore trusted Snape,” Harry reminded her.   Not enough to tell him that he had swapped the words,” said Hermione.   “Yeah, you’re right!” said Harry, and he felt even more cheered at the  thought that Dumbledore had some reservations, however faint, about Snape’s   
 265   trustworthiness.“So,wouldhehavehiddentheswordwellawayfrom Hogsmeade  then? What d’you reckon, Ron? Ron?”   Harry looked around.For one bewildered momenthe thought that Ron had  left the tent, then realized that Ron was lying in the shadow of a lower bunk,  looking stony.   “Oh, remembered me, have you?” he said.   “What?”   Ron snorted as he started up at the underside of the upper bunk.   “You two carry on. Don’t let me spoil your fun.”   Perplexed, Harry looked to Hermione for help, but she shook her head, apparently  as nonplussed as he was.   “What’s the problem?” asked Harry.   “Problem? There’s no problem,” said Ron, still refusing to look at Harry.  “Not according to you, anyway.”   There were several plunks on the canvas over their heads. It had started to  rain.   “Well, you’ve obviously got a problem,” said Harry. “Spit it out, will you?”   Ron swung his long legs off the bed and sat up. He looked mean, unlike  himself.   “All right, I’ll spit it out. Don’t expect me to skip up and down the tent  because there’s someotherdamnthingwe’vegottofind.Justaddittothelist  of stuff you don’t know.”   “I don’t know?” repeated Harry. “Idon’t know?”   Plunk, plunk, plunk. The rain was falling harder and heavier;; it pattered  on the leaf-strewn bank all around them and into the river chattering through  the dark. Dread doused Harry’s jubilation. Ron was saying exactly what he  had suspected and feared him to be thinking.   “It’s not like I’m not having the time of my life here,” said Ron, “you know,  with my arm mangled and nothing to eat and freezing my backside off every  night.Ijust hoped, you know, after we’dbeen running rounda few weeks, we’d  have achieved something.”   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    “Ron,” Hermione said, but in such a quiet voice that Ron could pretend not  to have heard it over the loud tattoo the rain was now beating on the tent.   “I thought you knew what you’dsigned up for,” said Harry.   “Yeah,IthoughtIdid too.”   “Sowhatpartofitisn’tlivingupto expectations?” askedHarry.Angerwas  coming to his defense now. “Did you think we’dbe staying in five-star hotels?  Finding a Horcrux every other day? Did you think you’dbe backto Mummy7  by Christmas?”   “We thought you knew what you were doing!” shouted Ron, standing up,  and his words pierced Harry like scalding knives. “We thought Dumbledore  had told you want to do, we thought you had a real plan!”   “Ron!” said Hermione, this timeclearly audible over the rain thundering on  the tent roof, but again, he ignored her.   “Well, sorry to let you down,” said Harry, his voice quite calm even though  he felt hollow, inadequate. “I’ve been straight with you from the start,I told  you everything Dumbledore told me. And in case you haven’t noticed, we’ve  found on Horcrux—”   “Yeah, and we’re about as near getting rid of it as we are to finding the rest  of them—nowhere effing near in other words?”   “Take off the locket, Ron,” Hermione said, her voice unusually high. “Please  take it off. You wouldn’t be talking like this if you hadn’t been wearing it all  day.”   “Yeah, he would,” said Harry, who did not want excuses made for Ron.  “D’you think I haven’t noticed the two of you whispering behind my back?  D’you thinkIdidn’t guess you were thinking this stuff?”   “Harry we weren’t—”   “Don’t lie!” Ron hurled at her. “you said it too, you said you were disappointed,  you said you’dthought he had a bit more to go on than—”   “I didn’t sayit like that—Harry,Ididn’t!” she cried.   The rain was pounding the tent, tears were pouring down Hermione’s face,  and the excitement of a few minutes before had vanished as if it had never   
 been, a short-lived firework that had flared and died, leaving everything dark,  wet, and cold. The sword of Gryffindor was hidden they knew not where, and  they were three teenagers in a tent whose only achievement was not, yet, to be  dead.   “So why are you still here?” Harry asked Ron.   “Search me,” said Ron.   “Go home then,” said Harry.   “Yeah, maybeIwill!” shouted Ron, andhe took several steps toward Harry,  who did not back away. “Didn’t you hear what they said about my sister? But  you don’t givea rat’s fart, do you, it’s only theForbiddenForest, Harry I’ve- Faced-Worse Potter doesn’t care what happens to her in there—well,I do, all  right, giant spider and mental stuff—”   “I was only saying—she was with the others, they were with Hagrid—”   “Yeah, I get it, you don’t care! And what about the rest of my family, the  Weasleys don’t need another kid injured, did you hear that?”   “Yeah, I—”   “Not bothered what it meant, though?”   “Ron!” said Hermione, forcing her way between them. “I don’t think it  means anything new has happened, anything we don’t know about: think, Ron,  Bill’s already scarred; plenty of people must have seen that George has lost an  ear by now, and you’re supposed to be on your deathbed with spattergroit, I’m  sure that’s all he meant—”   “Oh, you’re sure, are you? Right then, well, I won’t bother myself about  them. It’s all right for you two, isn’t it, with your parents safely out of the  way—”   “My parents are dead!” Harry bellowed.   “And mine could be going the same way!” yellow Ron.   “Then GO!” roared Harry. “Go back to them, pretend you’ve got over your  spattergroit and Mummy’ll be able to feed you up and—”   Ron made a sudden movement: Harry reacted, but before either wand was  clear of its owner’s pocket, Hermione had raised her own.   
 CHAPTER  15.  THE  GOBLIN’S  REVENGE    “Protego!” she cried, and an invisible shield expanded between her and  Harry on the one side and Ron on the other; all of them were forced backward  a few steps by the strength of the spell, and Harry and Ron glared from either  side of the transparent barrier as though they were seeing eachother clearly  for the first time. Harry felt a corrosive hatred toward Ron: Something had  broken between them.   “Leave the Horcrux,” Harry said.   Ron wrenched thechain from over his head and cast the locket intoanearby  chair. He turned to Hermione.   “What are you doing?”   “What do you mean?”   “Are you staying or what?”   “I... ” She looked anguished. “Yes—yes, I’m staying, Ron, we said we’dgo  with Harry, we said we’dhelp—”   “Igetit.Youchoose him.”   “Ron, no—please—come back, come back!”   She was impeded by her own Shield charm; by the time she had removed  it he had already stormed into the night. Harry stood quite still and silent,  listening to her sobbing and calling Ron’s name amongst the trees.   After a few minutes she returned, her sopping hair plastered to her face.   “He’s g-g-gone! Disapparated!”   She threw herself into a chair, curled up, and started to cry.   Harry felt dazed. He stooped, picked up the Horcrux, and placed it around  his own neck. He dragged blankets off Ron’sbunk and threw them over Hermione.  Then he climbed onto his own bed and stared up at the dark canvas roof, listening  to the pounding of the rain.   
 Chapter  16    Godric’s  Hollow    W W hen Harry woke the following dayit was several seconds beforehe  rememberedwhathad happened. Thenhehoped,childishly,  that it had been a dream, that Ron was still there and  never left. Yet by turning his head on his pillow he could see Ron’s deserted  bunk. It was like a dead body in the way it seemed to draw his eyes. Harry  jumped down from his own bed, keeping his eyesaverted from Ron’s. Hermione,  who was already busy in the kitchen, did not wish Harry good morning, but  turned her face awayquickly as he went by.   He’s gone. Harry told himself. He’s gone. He had to keep thinking it as he  washed and dressed, as though repetition would dull the shockof it. He’s gone  and he’s not comingback. And that was the simple truth of it. Harry knew,  because their protective enchantments meant that it would be impossible,once  they vacated this spot, for Ron to find them again.   He and Hermione ate breakfast in silence. Hermione’s eyes were puffy and  red; she looked as if she had not slept. They packed up their things, Hermione  dawdling.Harryknewwhyshewantedtospinouttheirtimeonthe riverbank;  several times he saw her look up eagerly and he was sure she had deluded  herself into thinking that she heard footsteps through the heavy rain, but no  red-haired figure appeared between the trees. Every time Harry imitated her,   269   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    looked around (for he could not help hoping a little, himself) and saw nothing  but rain-swept woods, another little parcel of fury exploded inside him. He  could hear Ron saying, “We thought you knew what you were doing!”, and he  resumed packing with a hard knot in the pit of his stomach.   The muddy river beside them was rising rapidly and would soon spill over  onto their bank. They had lingered a good hour after they would usually have  departed their campsite.Finallyhaving entirely repackedthebeadedbag three  times. Hermione seemed unable to find any more reasons to delay: She and  Harry grasped hands and Disapparated, reappearing on a windswept heather- covered hillside.   The instant they arrived, Hermione dropped Harry’shand andwalkedaway  from him, finally sitting down on a large rock; her face on her knees,shaking  with what he knew were sobs. He watched her, supposing that he ought to go  and comfort her, but something kept him rooted to the spot. Everything inside  him felt cold and tight: Again he saw the contemptuous expression on Ron’s  face. Harry strode off through the heather, walking in a large circle with the  distraught Hermione at its center, casting the spells she usually performed to  ensure their protection.   They did not discuss Ron at all over the next few days. Harry was determined  never to mention his name again, and Hermione seemed to know that it  was no use forcing the issue,although sometimes at night when she thought he  was sleeping, he would hear her crying. Meanwhile Harry had started bringing  out the Marauder’s Map and examining it by wandlight. He was waiting  for the moment when Ron’s labeled dot would reappear in the corridors of Hog- warts, proving that he had returned to the comfortable castle, protected by his  statusof pureblood. However,Rondidnotappearonthemap,andafterawhile  Harry found himself taking it out simply to stare at Ginny’s name in the girls’  dormitory, wondering whether the intensity with which he gazed at it might  break into her sleep, that she would somehow knowhewas thinking about her,  hoping that she was all right.   By day, they devoted themselves to trying to determine the possible loca   
 tions of Gryffindor’s sword, but the more they talked about the places in which  Dumbledore might have hidden it, the more desperate and far-fetched their  speculation became. Cudgel his brains though he might, Harry could not remember  Dumbledore ever mentioning a place in which he might hide something.  There were moments when he did not know whether he was angrier  with Ron or with Dumbledore. We thought you knew what you were doing. . . .  Wethought Dumbledorehadtoldyouwhattodo....Wethoughtyouhadareal  plan!   He could not hide it from himself: Ron had been right. Dumbledore had  left him virtually nothing. They had discovered one Horcrux, but they had  no means of destroying it: The others were as unattainable as they had ever  been. Hopelessness threatened to engulf him. He was staggered now to think  of his own presumption in accepting his friends’ offers to accompany him on  this meandering, pointless journey. He knew nothing, he had no ideas, and he  was constantly painfully on the alert for any indication that Hermione too was  about to tell him that she had had enough, that she was leaving.   They were spending many evenings in near silence, and Hermione took to  bringingout Phineas Nigellus’sportraitand proppingitupinachair,asthough  he might fill part of the gaping hole left by Ron’s departure. Despite his previous  assertion that he would never visit them again, Phineas Nigellus did  not seem able to resist the chance to find out more about what Harry was up  to, and consented to reappear, blindfolded, every few days or so. Harry was  even glad to see him, because he was company, albeit of a snide and taunting  kind. They relished any news about what was happening in Hogwarts,  though Phineas Nigellus was not an ideal informer. He venerated Snape, the  first Slytherin headmaster since he himself had controlled the school, and they  had to be careful not to criticize or ask impertinent questions about Snape, or  Phineas Nigellus would instantly leave his painting.   However, he did let drop certain snippets. Snape seemed to be facing a  constant, low level of mutiny from a hard core of students. Ginny had been  banned from going into Hogsmeade. Snape had reinstated Umbridge’s old de   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    cree forbidding gatherings of three or more students or any unofficial student  societies.   From all of these things, Harry deduced that Ginny, and probably Neville  and Luna along with her, hadbeen doing their best to continue Dumbledore’s  Army. This scant news made Harry want to see Ginny so badly it felt like  a stomachache; but it also made him think of Ron again, and of Dumbledore,  and of Hogwarts itself,whichhe missed nearly as muchas hisex-girlfriend. Indeed  as Phineas Nigellus talked about Snape’s crackdown, Harry experienced  a split second of madness when he imagined simply going backto school to join  the destabilization of Snape’s regime. Being fed, and having a soft bed, and  other people being in charge, seemed the most wonderful prospect in the world  at that moment. But then he remembered that he was Undesirable Number  One,thattherewasa ten-thousand-Galleonpriceonhishead,andthattowalk  into Hogwarts these days was just as dangerous as walking into the Ministry  of Magic. Indeed, Phineas Nigellus inadvertently emphasized this fact by slipping  in leading questions about Harry and Hermione’swhereabouts. Hermione  shoved him back inside the beaded bag every time he did this, and Phineas  Nigellus invariably refused to reappear for several days after these unceremonious  good—byes.   The weather grew colder and colder. They did not dare remain in any one  area too long, so rather than staying in the south of England, where a hard  ground frost was the worst of their worries, they continued to meander up and  down the country, braving a mountainside, where sleet pounded the tent; a  wide,flatmarsh,wherethetentwas floodedwithchillwater:andatinyisland  in the middle of a Scottish loch, where snow buried the tent in the night.   They already spotted Christmas trees twinkling from several sitting room  windows before there came an evening when Harry resolved to suggest, again,  what seemed to him the only unexplored avenue left to them. They had just  eaten an unusually good meal: Hermione had been to a supermarket under  the Invisibility Cloak (scrupulously dropping the money into an open till as  she left), and Harry thought she might be more persuadable than usual on a   
 stomachfull of spaghetti Bolognese and tinned pears. He had also had the foresight  to suggest that they take a few hours’ break from wearing the Horcrux,  which was hanging over the end of the bank beside him.   “Hermione?”   “Hmm?” She was curled up in one of the sagging armchairs with TheTales  of Beedle the Bard. He could not imagine how much more she could get out  of the book, which was not, after all, very long, but evidently she was still deciphering  something in it, because Spellman’s Syllabary layopen on the arm  of the chair. Harry cleared his throat. He felt exactly as he had done on the  occasion, several years previously, when he had asked Professor McGonagall  whether he could go into Hogsmeade, despite the fact that he had not persuaded  the Dursleys to sign his permission slip.   “Hermione, I’ve been thinking, and—“   “Harry, could you help me with something?”   Apparently she had not been listening to him. She leaned forward and held  out TheTalesof Beedle the Bard.   “Look at the symbol.” She said, pointing to the top of a page. Above what  Harry assumed was the title of the story (being unable to read runes, he could  not be sure), there was a picture of what looked like a triangular eye, its pupil  crossed with a vertical line.   “I never took Ancient Runes, Hermione”   “Iknowthat,butitisn’ta runeandit’snotinthe syllabary, either.Allalong  Ithoughtitwasa pictureofaneye,butIdon’tthinkitis!It’sbeeninkedin,  look, somebody’s drawn it there, it isn’t really part of the book. Think, have  you ever seen it before?”   “No...No,waita moment.” Harry lookedcloser. “Isn’tit the same symbol  Luna’s dad was wearing around his neck?”   “Well, that’s whatIthought too!”   “Then it’s Grindelwald’s mark”   She stared at him, open mouthed.   “What?”   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    “Krum toldme... “   He recounted the story that Viktor Krum had told him at the wedding.  Hermione looked astonished,   “Grindelwald’s mark?”   She looked from Harry to the weird symbol and back again. “I’ve never  heard that Grindelwald had a mark. There’s no mention of it in anything I’ve  read about him.”   “Well,likeI say,Krumreckonedthatsymbolwas carvedonawallatDurmstrang,  and Grindelwald put it there.”   She fell backinto the old armchair, frowning.   “That’s very o. If it’s a symbol of Dark Magic, what’s it doing in a book of  children’s stories?”   “Yeah it is weird.” Said Harry. “And you’d think Scrimgeour would have  recognizedit.Hewas Minister,heoughttohavebeen expertofDark stuff”   “Iknow...Perhapshe thoughtitwasaneye,justlikeIdid. Allthe other  stories have little pictures over the titles.”   She did not speak, but continued to pore over the strange mark. Harry tried  again.   “Hermione?”   “Hmm?”   “I’ve been thinking. I—I want to go to Godric’s Hollow.”   She looked up at him, but her eyes were unfocused, and he was sure she  was still thinking about the mysterious mark on the book.   “Yes.” She said.“Yes, I’ve been wondering that too.Ireally think we’llhave  to.”   “Did you hear me right?” he asked.   “Of course I did. You want to go to Godric’s Hollow. I agree, I think we  should.Imean,Ican’t thinkof anywhere elseit couldbe either. It’llbe dangerous, butthe moreIthink aboutit,the more likelyit seemsit’s there.”   “Er—what’s there?” asked Harry.   At that, she looked just as bewildered as he felt.   
 “Well, the sword, Harry! Dumbledore must have known you’d want to go  backthere, andImean, Godric’s Hollow is Godric Gryffindor’s birthplace—“   “Really? Gryffindor came from Godric’s Hollow?”   “Harry, did you ever even open AHistory of Magic?”   “Erm,” he said, smiling for what felt like the first time in months. The  musclesinhisfacefeltoddlystiff.“I might’veopenedyouknow,whenIbought  it...justthe once...“   “Well as the village is named after him I’d have thought you might have  made the connection.” Said Hermione. She sounded much more like her old  self that she had done of late; Harry half expected her to announce that she  was off to the library. “There’s a bit about the village in A History of Magic,  wait ...“   She opened the beaded bag and rummaged for a while, finally extracting  her copy of the old school textbook. A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot,  whichshe thumbed through until finding the page she wanted.   “Upon the signature of the International Statute of Secrecy in 1689, wizards  went into hidingfor good. It was natural, perhaps, that theyformed their own  small communities within a community. Many small villages and hamlets attracted  several magical families, who banded togetherfor mutual support and  protection. The villages ofTinworthin Cornwald, Upper Flagley inYorkshire,  and Ottery St. Catchpole on the south coast of England were notable homes to  knots ofWizarding families who lived alongside tolerant and sometimes Con- funded Muggles. Most celebrated of these half-magical dwelling places is, perhaps,  Godric’s Hollow, theWest Country village where the great wizard Godric  Gryffindor was born, and where Bowman Wright,Wizarding smith,forged the  firstGoldenSnitch.Thegraveyardisfullofthe namesofancientmagicalfamilies,  and this accounts, no doubtfor the stories of haunting’s that have dogged  the littlechurchbesideitfor many centuries.”   “You and your parents aren’t mentioned.” Hermione said, closing the book,  “because Professor Bagshot doesn’t cover anything later than the end of the  nineteenth century. But you see? Godric’sHollow,Godric Gryffindor. Gryffindor’s   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    sword: don’t you think Dumbledore would have expected you to make the con   nection?”   “Oh yeah... “   Harrydidnotwanttoadmitthathehadnotbeen thinkingaboutthesword  at all when he suggested they go to Godric’s Hollow. For him, the lure of the  village lay as his parents’ graves, the house where he had narrowly escaped  death, and in the person of Bathilda Bagshot.   “Remember what Muriel said?” he asked eventually.   “Who?”   “You know” he hesitated. He did not want to say Ron’s name. “Ginny’s  great-aunt. At the wedding. The one who said you had skinny ankles.”   “Oh.” Said Hermione. It was a sticky moment: Harry knew that she had  sensed Ron’s name in the offing. He rushed on:   “She said Bathilda Bagshot still lives in Godric’s Hollow.”   “Bathilda Bagshot,” murmured Hermione, running her index finger over  Bathilda’s embossed name on the front cover ofA Historyof Magic. “Well,I  suppose—“   She gasped so dramatically that Harry’s insides turned over, he drew his  wand, looking around at the entrance, half expecting to see a hand forcing it  swaythrough the entrance flap, but there was nothing there.   “What?” he said, half angry, half relieved. “What did you do that for?  Thought you’d seen a Death Eater unzipping the tent, at least—“   “Harry, what if Bathilda’s got the sword? What if Dumbledore entrusted it  to her?”   Harry considered this possibility. Bathilda would be an extremely old woman  by now, and according to Muriel, she was “gaga.” Was it likely that Dumbledore  would have hidden the sword of Gryffindor with her? If so, Harry felt that  Dumbledore had left a great deal to chance: Dumbledore had never revealed  that he had replaced the sword with a fake, nor had he so much mentioned  a friendship with Bathilda. Now, however, was not the moment to cast doubt  on Hermione’s theory, not when she was so surprisingly willing to fall in with   
 Harry’s dearest wish.   “Yeah, he might have done! So, are we going to go to Godric’s Hollow?”   “Yes, but we’ll have to think in through carefully, Harry.” She was sitting  upnow,andHarrycouldtellthatthe prospectofhavingaplanagainhadlifted  her mood as much as his. “We’ll need to practice Disapparating together under  the Invisibility Cloak for a start, and perhaps Disillusionment Charms would  be sensibletoo,unlessyouthinkweshouldgothewholehogandusePolyjuice  Potion? In that case we’ll need to collect hair from somebody. Iactually think  we’dbetterdothat,Harry,thethickerour disguisesthe better... “   Harry let her talk, nodding and agreeing whenever there was a pause,but  his mind had left the conversation. For the first time since he had discovered  that the sword in Gringotts was a fake, he felt excited.   He was about to go home, about to return to the place where he had had  a family. It was in Godric’s Hollow that, but for Voldemort, he would have  grown up and spent every school holiday. He could have invited friends to his  house....Hemight evenhavehad brothersand sisters....It wouldhavebeen  his mother who had made his seventeenth birthdaycake. The life he had lost  hadhardlyeverseemedsorealtohimasatthis moment,whenheknewhewas  about to see the place were it had been taken from him. After Hermione had  gone to bed that night, Harry quietly extracted his rucksackfrom Hermione’s  beaded bag, and from insideit, the photograph album Hagrid had given him  so long ago. For the first time in months, he pursued the old pictures of his  parents, smiling and waving up at him from the images, which were all he had  left of them now.   Harry would gladlyhave set out for Godric’s Hollow the following day, but  Hermione had other ideas. Convinced as she was that Voldemort would expect  Harry to return to the scene of his parents’ deaths, she was determined  that they would set off only after they had ensured that they had the best  disguises possible. It was therefore a full week later—once they had surreptitiously  obtained hairs frominnocent Muggles who were Christmas shopping,  and had practiced Apparating and Disapparating while underneath the Invis   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    ibility Cloak together—that Hermione agreed to make the journey.   TheyweretoApparatetothevillageundercoverof darkness, soitwaslate  afternoon when they finally swallowed Polyjuice Potion, Harry transforming  into a balding, middle-aged Muggle man, Hermione into his small and rather  mousy wife. The beaded bag containing all of their possessions (apart from the  Horcrux, whichHarrywas wearing around his neck) was tucked into an inside  pocket of Hermione’s buttoned-up coat. Harry lowered the Invisibility Cloak  over them, then they turned into the suffocating darkness once again.   Heart beating in his throat, Harry opened his eyes. They were standing  hand in hand in a snowy lane under a dark blue sky in which the night’s  first stars were already glimmering feebly. Cottages stood on either side of  the narrow road, Christmas decorations twinkling in their windows. A short  way ahead of them, a glow of golden streetlights indicated the centre of the  village.   “All this snow!” Hermione whispered beneath the cloak. “Why didn’t we  think of snow? After all our precautions, we’ll leave prints! We’ll just have to  get rid of them—you go in front, I’ll do it—”   Harry did not want to enter the village like a pantomime horse, trying to  keep themselves concealed while magically covering their traces.   “Let’s take off the Cloak.” said Harry, and when she looked frightened,“Oh,  come one, we don’t look like us and there’s no one around.”   He stowed the Cloak under his jacket and they made their way forward  unhampered, the icy air stinging their faces as they passed more cottages.  Anyone of them might have been the one in whichJames and Lily had once  lived or where Bathilda lived now. Harry gazed at the front doors, their snow- burdened roofs, and their frost porches, wondering whether he remembered  anyof them,knowingdeep insidethatitwas impossible,thathehadbeen little  more than a year old when he had left this place forever. He was not even sure  whether he would be able to see the cottage at all; he did not know what happened  when the subjectsofaFidelius Charm died. Then the little lane along  whichthey were walking curved to the left and the heart of the village, a small   
 square, was revealed to them.   Strung all around with colored lights, there was what looked like a war  memorial in the mile, partly obscured by a windblown Christmas tree. There  were several shops, a post office, a pub and a little churchwhose stained-glass  windows were glowing jewel-bright across the square.   Thesnowherehadbecome impacted,Itwashardandslipperywherepeople  had trodden on it all day. Villagers were crisscrossing in front of them, their  figuresbriefly illuminatedbystreetlamps.Theyheardasnatchoflaughterand  pop music as the pub door opened and closed; then they heard a carol start up  inside the little church.   “Harry,Ithink it’s Christmas Eve!” said Hermione.   “Is it?”   He had lost trackof the date; they had not seen a newspaper for weeks.   “I’m sureitis.” Said Hermione,hereyesuponthechurch. “They...they’ll  be in there, won’t they? Your mum and dad? I can see the graveyard behind  it.”   Harry felt a thrill of something that was beyond excitement, more like fear.  Now that he was so near, he wondered whether he wanted to see after all.  Perhaps Hermione knew how he was feeling, because she reached for his hand  and took the lead for the first time, pulling him forward. Halfway across the  square, however, she stopped dead.   “Harry, look!”   She was pointing at the war memorial. As they had passed it, it had transformed.  Instead of an obelisk covered in names, there was a statue of three  people: a man with untidy hair and glasses, a woman with long hair and a  kind,pretty face, and a baby boy sitting in his mother’s arms. Snow layupon  all their heads, like fluffy white caps.   Harry drewcloser,gazingup intohis parents’ faces.Hehad never imagined  that therewouldbea statue.... How strangeitwasto see himself represented  in stone, a happy baby withouta scar on his forehead....   “C’mon” said Harry, when he had looked his fill they turned again toward   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    the church. As they crossed the road, he glanced over his shoulder; the statue  had turned backinto the war memorial.   The singing grew louder as they approached the church. It made Harry’s  throat constrict.It remindedhimso forcefullyofHogwarts,ofPeeves bellowing  rude versions of carols from inside suits of armor, of the Great Hall’s twelve  Christmas trees, of Dumbledore wearing a bonnet he had won in a cracker, of  Ronina hand-knitted sweater ...   Therewasakissinggateatthe entrancetothegraveyard. Hermionepushed  it open as quietly as possible and they edged through it. On either side of the  slippery path to the church doors, the snow lay deep and untouched. They  moved off through the snow,carving deep trenches behind them as theywalked  around the building, keeping to the shadows beneath the brilliant windows.   Behind the church row upon row of snowy tombstones protruded from a  blanket of pale blue that was flecked with dazzling red, gold, and green wherever  the reflections from the stained glass hit the snow. Keeping his hand  closed tightly on the wand in his jacket pocket. Harry moved toward the nearest  grave.   “Look at this, it’s an Abbott, could be some long-lost relation of Hannah’s!”   “Keep your voice down.” Hermione begged him.   Theywaded deeper and deeper into the graveyard, gouging dark tracks into  the snow behind them, stooping to peer at the words on old headstones, every  now and then squinting into the surrounding darkness to make absolutely sure  that they were unaccompanied.   “Harry, here!”   Hermionewastwo rowsof tombstonesaway:hehadtowadebacktoher,his  heart positively banging in his chest.   “Is it—?”   “No, but look!”   She pointed to the dark stone. Harry stooped down and saw,upon the frozen  lichen-spotted granite, the words KENDRA DUMBLEDORE and, a short way  below her dates of birth and death, AND HER DAUGHTER ARIANA. There was   
 also a quotation:   Where you treasure is, there will your heart be also.   So Rita Skeeter and Muriel had got some of their facts right. The Dumbledore  family had indeed lived here, and part of it had died here.   Seeing the grave was worse than hearing about it. Harry could not help  thinking that he and Dumbledore both had deep roots in this graveyard, and  that Dumbledore ought to have told him so, yet he had never thought to share  the connection.Theycouldhave visitedtheplace together;foramomentHarry  imagined coming here with Dumbledore, of whata bond that wouldbeen, of  how much it would have meant to him. But it seemed that to Dumbledore,  the fact that their families layside by side in the same graveyard had been an  unimportant coincidence, irrelevant, perhaps, to the job he wanted Harry to  do.   Hermione was looking at Harry, and he was glad that his face was hidden  in shadow. He read the words on the tombstone again. Where your treasure is,  there will you heart be also. He did not understand what these words meant.  Surely Dumbledore had chosen them, as the eldest member of the family once  his mother had died.   “re you sure he never mentioned—?” Hermione began.   “No,”saidHarrycurtly,then,“let’skeeplooking,”andhe turnedaway,wishing  he had not seen the stone. He did not want his excited trepidation tainted  with resentment.   “Here!” cried Hermioneagainafew momentslaterfromoutofthe darkness.  “Ohno, sorry!Ithoughtit saidPotter.” Shewas rubbingata crumpling, mossy  stone, gazing down at it, a little frown on her face.   “Harry, come back a moment.”   Hedidnotwanttobe sidetrackedagain,andonly grudginglymadehisway  backthrough the snow toward her.   “What?”   “Look at this!”   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    The grave was extremely old, weathered so that Harry could hardly make  out the name. Hermione showed him the symbol beneath it.   “Harry, that’s the mark in the book!”   Hepeeredattheplaceshe indicated:The stonewasso wornthatitwashard  tomakeoutwhatwasengravedthere,thoughtheredidseemtobea triangular  mark beneath the nearly illegible name.   “Yeah...it couldbe...”   Hermione lit her wand and pointed it at the name on the headstone.   “It says Ig—Ignotus,Ithink... ”   “I’mgoingtokeeplookingformy parents,all right?”Harrytoldher,aslight  edge to his voice,and he set off again, leaving her crouched beside the old grave.   Every now and then he recognized a surname that, like Abbott,he had met  atHogwarts. Sometimes there were several generationsofthe sameWizarding  family representedinthegraveyard.Harrycouldtellfromthedatesthatithad  either died out, orthe current members had movedawayfrom Godric’s Hollow.  Deeper and deeper amongst the graves he went,and every time he reached a  new headstone he felt a little lurchof apprehension and anticipation.   The darkness and the silence seemed to become, all of a sudden, much  deeper. Harry looked around, worried, thinking of dementors, then realized  that the carols had finished, that the chatter and flurry of churchgoers were  fadingawayas they made theirwaybackinto the square. Somebody inside the  churchhad just turned off the lights.   Then Hermione’s voice came out of the blackness for the third time, sharp  and clear from a few yards away.   “Harry, they’re here... right here.”   And he knew by her tone that it was his mother and his father this time.  He movedtowardher, feelingasif somethingheavy were pressingonhischest,  the same sensation he had had right after Dumbledore had died, a grief that  had actually weighed on his heart and lungs.   The headstone was only two rooms behind Kendra and Ariana’s. It was  made of white marble, just like Dumbledore’s tomb, and this made it easy to   
 read, as it seemed to shine in the dark. Harry did not need to kneel or even  approachvery close to it to make out the words engraved upon it.   JAMES POTTER LILY POTTER  BORN 27MARCH 1960 BORN 30JANUARY 1960  DIED 31OCTOBER 1981 DIED 31OCTOBER 1981   The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.   Harry read the words slowly, as though he would have only one chance to  take in their meaning, and he read the last of them aloud.   “‘The last enemy that shallbe destroyedis death’ ... ”A horrible thought  came to him, and with it a kind of panic. “Isn’t that a Death Eater idea? Why  is that here?”   “It doesn’t mean defeating death in the way the Death Eaters mean it,  Harry,” said Hermione,her voice gentle. “It means ...you know...livingbeyond  death. Living after death.”   But they were not living, thought Harry: They were gone. The empty words  could not disguise the fact that his parents’ moldering remains lay beneath  snow and stone, indifferent, unknowing. And tears came before he could stop  them, boiling hot then instantly freezing on his face, and what was the point  in wiping them off or pretending? He let them fall, his lips pressed hard together, looking down at the thicksnow hiding from his eyes the place where the  last of Lily andJames lay, bones now, surely, or dust, not knowing or caring  that their living son stood so near, his heart still beating, alive because of their  sacrifice and close to wishing, at this moment, that he was sleeping under the  snow with them.   Hermione had taken his hand again and was gripping it tightly. He could  not look at her, but returned the pressure, now taking deep, sharp gulps of the  night air, trying to steady himself, trying to regain control. He should have  brought something to give to them, and he had not thought of it, and every  plantinthegraveyardwas leaflessand frozen.But Hermione raisedherwand,  moveditina circle through the air anda wreathof Christmas roses blossomed   
 CHAPTER  16.  GODRIC’S  HOLLOW    before them. Harry caught it and laid it on his parents’ grave.   As soon as he stood up he wanted to leave. He did not think he could stand  another moment there. He put his arm around Hermione’s shoulders, and she  puthers aroundhiswaist,andthey turnedin silenceandwalkedawaythrough  the snow, past Dumbledore’s mother and sister, back toward the dark church  and the out-of-sight kissing gate.   
 Chapter  17    Bathilda’s  Secret    H H arry, stop.”  “What’s wrong?”  They had only just reached the grave of the unknown Abbott.  “There’s someone there. Someone’s watching us. I can tell. There; over by  the bushes.”  They stood quite still, holding on to each other, gazing at the dense black  boundary of the graveyard. Harry could not see anything.  “Are you sure?”  “I saw something move,Icouldhave swornIdid...”  She broke from him to free her wand arm.  “We look like Muggles,” Harry pointed out.   “Muggles who’ve just been laying flowers on your parents’ grave! Harry, I’m   sure   there’s someone over there!”   Harry thought of A History of Magic, the graveyard was supposed to be  haunted, what if—? But then he heard a rustle and saw a little eddy of dislodged  snow in the bush to which Hermione had pointed. Ghosts could not  move snow.   “It’s a cat,” said Harry, after a second or two, ”or a bird. If it was a Death   285   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    Eater we’dbe dead by now. But let’s get out of here, and we can put the Cloak  back on.”   They glanced backrepeatedly as they made their wayout of the graveyard.  Harry, who did not feel as sanguine as he had pretended when reassuring  Hermione, was glad to reachthe gate and the slippery pavement. They pulled  the Invisibility Cloak back over themselves. The pub was fuller than before:  Many voices inside it were now singing the carol that they had heard as they  approached the church. For a moment Harry considered suggesting they take  refuge inside it, but before he could sayanything Hermione murmured, ”Lets  go this way,” and pulled him down the dark street leading out of the village in  the opposite direction from whichthey had entered. Harry could make out the  point where the cottages ended and the lane turned into open country again.  They walked as quickly as they dared, past more windows sparkling with multicolored  light, the outlines of Christmas trees dark through the curtains.   “How are we going to find Bathilda’s house?” asked Hermione, who was  shiveringalittleandkept glancingback overher shoulder. “Harry? Whatdo  you think? Harry?”   Shetuggedathisarm,butHarrywasnotpaying attention.Hewas looking  toward the dark mass that stood at the very end of this row of houses. Next  moment he had sped up, dragging Hermione along with him; she slipped a  little on the ice.   “Harry—”   “Look...Lookatit Hermione ... ”   “I don’t ... oh!”   He could see it; theFidelius Charm must have died withJames and Lily.  The hedge had grown wild in the sixteen years since Hagrid had taken Harry  from the rubble that layscattered amongst the waist-high grass. Most of the  cottage was still standing, though entirely covered in dark ivy and snow, but  the right side of the top floor had been blown apart; that, Harry was sure, was  where the curse had backfired. He and Hermione stood at the gate, gazing at  the wreckof what must oncehave beena cottagejust like those that flankedit.   
 “I wonder why nobody’s ever rebuilt it?” whispered Hermione.   “Maybe you can’t rebuild it?” Harry replied, ”Maybe it’s like the injuries  from Dark Magic and you can’t repair the damage?”   He slipped a hand from beneath the Cloak and grasped the snowy and  thickly rusted gate, not wishing to open it, but simply to hold some part of  the house.   “You’re not going to go inside? It looks unsafe, it might—oh, Harry, look!”   His touch on the gate seemed to have done it. Asign had risen out of the  ground in front of them, up through the tangles of nettles and weeds, like some  bizarre, fast-growing flower, and in golden letters upon the wood it said:   On  this  spot,  on  the  night  of  31  October  1981,  Lily  and  James  Potter  lost  their  lives.  Their  son,  Harry,  remains  the  only  wizard  ever  to  have  survived  the  Killing  Curse.  This  house,  invisible  to  Muggles,  has  been  left  in  its  ruined  state  as  a  monument  to  the  Potters  and  as  a  reminder  of  the  violence  that  tore  apart  their  family.    And all around these neatly lettered words, scribbles had been added by  other witches and wizards who had come to see the place where the Boy Who  Lived had escaped. Some had merely signed their names in Everlasting Ink;  others had carved their initials into the wood, still others had left messages.  The most recent of these, shining brightly over sixteen years’ worth of magical  graffiti, all said similar things.   Good luck, Harry wherever you are.  If you read this, Harry, we’re all behind you!  Long live HarryPotter.    “They shouldn’t have written on the sign!” said Hermione, indignant.  But Harry beamed at her.   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    “It’s brilliant.I’mgladtheydid.I ... ”   He broke off. A heavily muffled figure was hobbling up the lane toward  them, silhouetted by the bright lights in the distant square. Harry thought,  though it was hard to judge, that the figure was a woman. She was moving  slowly, possibly frightened of slipping on the snowy ground. Her stoop,  her stoutness, her shuffling gait all gave an impression of extreme age. They  watched in silence as she drew nearer. Harry was waiting to see whether she  would turn into any of the cottages she was passing, but he knew instinctively  that she would not. At last she came to a half a few yards from the and simply  stood there in the middle of the frozen road, facing them.   He did not need Hermione’s pinchto his arm. There was next to no chance  this womanwasaMuggle: Shewas standing there gazingatahouse that ought  tohavebeen completely invisibletoher,ifshewasnotawitch. Even assuming  that she was a witch, however, it was odd behavior to come out on a night this  cold, simply to look at an old ruin. Byall the rules of normal magic,meanwhile,  she ought not to be able to see Hermione and him at all. Nevertheless, Harry  had the strangest feeling that she knew that they were there, and also who  they were. Just as he had reached this uneasy conclusion, she raised a gloved  hand and beckoned.   Hermione moved closer to him under the Cloak, her arm pressed against  his.   “How does she know?”   He shook his head. The woman beckoned again, more vigorously. Harry  could think of many reasons not to obey the summons, and yet his suspicions  about her identity were growing stronger every moment that they stood facing  eachother in the deserted street.   Was it possible that she had been waiting for them all these long months?  That Dumbledore had told her to wait, and that Harry would come in the end?  Was it not likely that it was she who had moved in the shadows in the graveyard  and had followed them to this spot? Even her ability to sense them suggested  some Dumbledore-ish power that he had never encountered before.   
 Finally Harry spoke, causing Hermione to gasp and jump.   “Are you Bathilda?”   The muffled figure nodded and beckoned again.   Beneath the Cloak Harry and Hermione looked at eachother. Harry raised  his eyebrows; Hermione gave a tiny, nervous nod.   They stepped toward the woman and, at once, she turned and hobbled off  back the way they had come. Leading them past several houses, she turned  in at a gate. They followed her up the front path through a garden nearly as  overgrown as the one they had just left. She fumbled for a moment with a key  at the front door, then opened it and stepped backto let them pass.   She smelled bad, or perhaps it was her house. Harry wrinkled his nose as  they sidled past her and pulled off the Cloak. Now that he was beside her, he  realized how tiny shewas; bowed down with age she came barely level with his  chest. Sheclosed the door behind them, her knuckles blue and mottled against  the peeling paint, then turned and peered into Harry’s face. Her eyes were  thick with cataracts and sunken in folds of transparent skin, and her whole  face was dotted with broken veins and liver spots. He wondered whether she  could make him out at all; even if she could, it was the balding Muggle whose  identity he had stolen that she would see.   The odorofoldage,of dust,of unwashedclothesand stalefood intensified  asshe unwoundamoth-eatenblackshawl, revealingaheadof scantwhitehair  through whichthe scalp showed clearly.   “Bathilda?” Harry repeated.   She nodded again. Harry became aware of the locket against his skin; the  thing inside it that sometimes ticked or beat had woken; he could feel it pulsing  through the cold gold. Did it know, could it sense, that the thing that would  destroy it was near?   Bathilda shuffled past them, pushing Hermione aside as though she had  not seen her, and vanished into what seemed to be a sitting room.   “Harry, I’m not sure about this,” breathed Hermione.   “Look at the size of her,Ithink we could overpower her if we had to,” said   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    Harry, ”Listen, I should have told you, I knew she wasn’t all there. Muriel   called her ’gaga.”’   “Come!” called Bathilda from the next room.   Hermione jumped and clutched Harry’s arm.   “It’sokay,”saidHarry reassuringly,andheledthewayintothesitting room.   Bathildawas tottering aroundtheplace lighting candle,butitwas stillvery  dark, not to mention extremely dirty. Thickdust crunched beneath their feet,  and Harry’s nose detected, underneath the dank and mildewed smell, something  worse, like meat gone bad. He wondered when was the last time anyone  had been inside Bathilda’s housetocheckwhethershewas coping. She seemed  to have forgotten that she could do magic too, for she lit the candles clumsily  by hand, her trailing lace cuff in constant danger of catching fire.   “Let me do that,” offered Harry and he took the matches from her. She stood  watching him as he finished lighting the candle stubs that stood on saucers  around the room, perched precariously on stack of book and on side tables  crammed with cracked and moldy cups.   Thelast surfaceonwhichHarryspottedacandlewasabow-frontedchestof  drawers on whichthere stood a large number of photographs. When the flame  danced into life, its reflection wavered on their dusty glass and silver. He saw  a few tiny movements from the pictures. As Bathilda fumbled with logs for  the fire, he muttered ”Tergeo”; the dust vanished from the photographs, and he  was at once that half a down were missing from the largest and most ornate  frames.   He wondered whether Bathilda or somebody else had removed them. Then  the sight of a photograph near the backof the collection caught his eye, and he  snatched it up.   Itwas the golden-haired, merry-faced thief,the young man who had perched  on Gregorovitch’swindowsill, smiling lazily up at Harry out of the silver frame.  And it came to Harry instantly where he had seen the boy before: in The Life  and Lies of Albus Dumbledore, arm in arm with teenage Dumbledore, and that  must be where all the missing photographs were in Rita’s book.   
 291   “Mrs.—Miss—Bagshot?” he said, and his voice shook slightly. “Who is this?”   Bathilda was standing in the middle of the room watching Hermione light  the fire for her.   “Miss Bagshot?” Harry repeated, and he advanced with the picture in his  hands as the flames burst into life in the fireplace. Bathilda looked up at his  voice, and the Horcrux heat faster upon his chest.   “Who is this person?” Harry asked her, pushing the picture forward.   She peered at it solemnly, then up at Harry.   “Do you know who this is?” he repeated in a muchslower and louder voice  than usual. ”This man? Do you know him? What’s he called?”   Bathilda merely looked vague. Harry felt an awful frustration. How had  Rita Skeeter unlocked Bathilda’s memories?   “Who is this man?” he repeated loudly.   “Harry, what are you doing?” asked Hermione.   “Thispicture,Hermione,it’sthethief,thethiefwhostolefrom Gregorovitch!   Please!” he said to Bathilda. ”Who is this?”   But she only stared at him.   “Why did you ask us to come with you, Mrs.—Miss—Bagshot?” asked Hermione,   raising her own voice. ”Was there something you wanted to tell us?”   Giving no sign that she had heard Hermione, Bathilda now shuffled a few  steps closer to Harry. With a little jerk of her head she looked back into the  hall.   “You want us to leave?” he asked.   She repeated the gesture, this time pointing firstly at him, then at herself,  then at the ceiling.   “Oh,right...Hermione,Ithinkshewantsmetogo upstairswithher.”   “All right,” said Hermione, ”let’s go.”   But when Hermione moved, Bathilda shook her head with surprising vigor,  once more pointing first at Harry, then to herself.   “She wants me to go with her, alone.”   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    “Why?” asked Hermione, and her voice rang out sharp and clear in the  candlelit room; the old lady shook her head a little at the loud noise.   “Maybe Dumbledore told her to give the sword to me, and only me?”   “Do you really think she knows who you are?”   “Yes,” said Harry, looking down into the milky eyes fixed upon his own, ”I  think she does.”   “Well, okaythen, but be quick, Harry.”   “Lead the way,” Harry told Bathilda.   She seemed to understand, because she shuffled around him toward the  door. Harry glanced back at Hermione with a reassuring smile, but he was  not sure she had seen it; she stood hugged herself in the midst of the candlelit  squalor,lookingtowardthe bookcase.AsHarrywalkedoutofthe room, unseen  byboth Hermione and Bathilda, he slipped the silver-framed photograph of the  unknown thief inside his jacket.   The stairs were steep and narrow; Harry was half tempted to place his  hands on stout Bathilda’s backside to ensure that she did not topple over backward  on top of him, which seemed only too likely. Slowly, wheezing a little,  she climbed to the upper landing, turned immediately right, and led him into  a low-ceilinged bedroom.   Itwas pitch-blackand smelled horrible. Harry had just made outachamber  pot protruding from under the bed before Bathilda closed the door and even  that was swallowed by the darkness.   “Lumos,” said Harry, and his wand ignited. He gave a start; Bathilda had  moved close to him in those few seconds of darkness, and he had not heard her  approach.   “You arePotter?” she whispered.   “Yes,I am.”   She nodded slowly, solemnly. Harry felt the Horcrux beating fast, faster  than his own heart. It was an unpleasant, agitating sensation.   “Have you got anything for me?” Harry asked, but she seemed distracted  by his lit wand-tip.   
 “Have you got anything for me?” he repeated.   Then she closed her eyes and several things happened at once: Harry’s  scar prickled painfully; the Horcrux twitched so that the front of his sweater  actually moves; the dark, fetid room dissolved momentarily. He felt a leap of  joy and spoke in a high, cold voice:   Hold him!   Harryswayedwherehestood:Thedark, foul-smellingroomseemedtoclose  around him again; he did not know what had just happened.   “Have you got anything for me?” he asked for a third time, muchlouder.   “Over here,” she whispered, pointing to the corner. Harry raised his wand  andsawthe outlineofacluttered dressing table beneaththe curtained window.   This time she did not lead him. Harry edged between her and the unmade  bed, his wand raised. He did not want to look awayfrom her.   “What is it?” he asked as he reached the dressing table, which was heaped  high with what looked and smelled like dirty laundry.   “There,” she said, pointing at the shapeless mass.   And in the instant that he looked away, his eyes raking the tangled mess  for a sword hilt, a ruby, she moved weirdly: He was it out of the corner of his  eye; panic made him turn and horror paralyzed him and he saw the old body  collapsingandthegreat snake pouringfromtheplace wherehe neckhad been.   Thesnake struckashe raisedhiswand.Theforceofthebitetohis forearm  sentthewandspinninguptowardtheceiling;itslightswung dizzyinglyaround  the room and was extinguished. Then a powerful blow from the tail to his  midriff knocked the breath out of him. He fell backward onto the dressing  table, into the mound of filthy clothing—   He rolled sideways,narrowlyavoiding the snake’stail, whichthrashed down  upon the table wherehe had beena second earlier.Fragmentsof the glass surface  rained upon him as he hit the floor. From below he heard Hermione call,  ”Harry?”   He could not get enough breath into his lungs to call back. Then a heavy  smooth mass smashed him into the floor and he felt it slide over him, powerful,   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    muscular.   “No!” he gasped, pinned to the floor.   “Yes,” whispered the voice. ”Yesss...hold you...hold you...”   “Accio... AccioWand... ”   But nothing happened and he needed his hands to try to force the snake  from him as it coiled itself around his torso, squeezing the air from him, pressingthe  Horcruxhardintohischest,acircleoficethat throbbedwithlife,inches  from his own frantic heart, and his brain was flooding with cold, white light,  all thought obliterated, his own breath drowned, distant footsteps, everything  going...   Ametal heart was banging outside his chest, and now he was flying, flying  with triumphinhis heart, withoutneedof broomstick or thestral ....   He was abruptly awake in the sour-smelling darkness; Nagini had released  him. He scrambled up and saw the snake outlined against the landing light.  It struck, and Hermione dived aside with a shriek; her deflected curse hit the  curtained window,whichshattered.Frozen air filled the room as Harry ducked  to avoid another shower of broken glass and his foot slipped on a pencil-like  something-his wand-  He bent and snatched it up, but now the room was full of the snake, its tail  thrashing; Hermione was nowhere to be seen and for a moment Harry thought  the worst, but then there was a loud bang and a flash of red light, and the  snake flew into the air, smacking Harry hard in the face as it went, coil after  heavy coil rising up to the ceiling. Harry raised his wand, but as he did so his  scar seared more painfully, more powerfully than it had done in years.   “He’s coming! Hermione, he’s coming!”   Asheyelledthesnakefell,hissingwildly. Everythingwaschaos;Itsmashed  shelves from the wall, and splintered china flew everywhere as Harry jumped  over the bed and seized the dark shape he knew to be Hermione.   She shrieked with pain as he pulled her back across the bed. The snake  reared again, but Harry knew that worse than the snake was coming, was  perhaps already at the gate, his head was going to split open with pain from   
 his scar.   The snake lunged as he took a running leap, dragging Hermione with him;  as it struck, Hermione scream, ”Confringo!” and her spell flew around the  room, exploding the wardrobe mirror and ricocheting back at them, bouncing  from floor to ceiling; Harry felt the heat of it sear the backof his hand. Glass  cut his cheek as, pulling Hermione one with him, he leapt from bed to broken  dressing table and then straight out of the smashed window into nothingness,  her scream reverberating through the night as they twisted in midair.   And thenhis sear burst openandhewasVoldemortandhewas running  acrossthe fetid bedroom,hislong white handsclutchingatthe windowsillashe  glimpsedthebaldmanandthelittle womantwistandvanish,andhe screamed  with rage, a scream that mingled with the girl’s, that echoed across the dark  gardens over the churchbells ringing in Christmas Day.   And his scream was Harry’s scream, his pain was Harry pain ... that it  could happen here, where it had happened before ... here, within sight of that  house wherehehad comesocloseto knowingwhatitwastodie...todie....  Thepainwasso terrible ...ripped fromhisbody.... Butifhehadnobody,  whydidhisheadhurtsobadly;ifhewasdead,howcouldhefeelso unbearably,  didn’t pain cease with death, didn’t it go—   The night wet and windy,twochildren dressed as pumpkins waddling across  the square, and the shop window covered in paper spiders, all the tawdry Muggle  trapping of a world in which they did not believe . . . . And he was gliding  along, that sense of purpose and power and rightness in him that he always  knew on these occasions .... Not anger.... that wasfor weaker souls thanhe  ...but triumph,yes....Hehad waitedforthis,hehadhopedforit....   “Nice costume, mister!”   He saw the small boy’s smile falter as he ran near enough to see beneath the  hoodofthe cloak, sawthe fear cloudhis painted face.Thenthechild turnedand  ran away.... Beneaththe robebe fingeredthe handofhis wand...One simple  movement and thechild would never reachhis mother...but unnecessary, quite  unnecessary.. . .   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    And along a new and darker street he moved, and now his destination was  insightatlast,theFideliusCharm broken,thoughtheydidnotknowityet....  And he made less noise than the dead leaves slithering along the pavement as he  drew level with the darkhedge, and peered over it. . . . They had not drawn the  curtains; he saw them quite clearlyin their little sitting room, the tall black—  haired man in his glasses, making puffs of colored smoke erupt from his wand  forthe amusementofthe smallblack-hairedboyinhisblue pajamas.Thechild  was laughingand tryingto catchthe smoke,tograbitinhis small fist....   Adoor opened and the mother entered, saying words he could not hear, her  long dark-red hair falling over her face. Now the father scooped up the son  and handed him to the mother. He threw his wand down upon the sofa and  stretched, yawning. . . .   Thegate creakeda littleashepusheditopen,butJamesPotterdidnohear.  His white hand pulled out the wand beneath his cloak and pointed it at the  door, whichburst open.   He was over the threshold as James came sprinting into the hall. It was  easy, too easy, he had not even picked up his wand. . .   “Lily, take Harry and go! It’s him! Go! Run! I’ll hold him off!”   Hold him off, without a wand in his hand? . . . . He laughed before casting  the curse. . . .   “Avada Kedavra!”   The green light filled the cramped hallway, it lit the pram pushed against  the wall, it made the banisters glare like lightning rods, andJamesPotter fell  like a marionette whose strings were cut. . . .   He could hear her screaming from the upper floor, trapped, but as long as  she was sensible, she, at least, had nothing to fear.... He climbed the steps,  listening with faint amusement to her attempts to barricade herself in. . . . She  had no wand either.... How stupid they were, and how trusting, thinking that  their safetylayin friends,that weapons couldbe discarded evenfor moments....   Heforced the door open, cast aside thechair and boxes hastilypiled against  it with onelazy waveofhis wand...and thereshe stood,thechildinher arms.   
 At the last sight of him, she dropped her son into the crib behind her and threw  her arms wide, as if this would help, as if in shielding him from sight she hoped  tobechosen instead....   “Not Harry, not Harry, please not Harry!”   “Stand aside, you sillygirl... stand aside now.”   “Not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead—”   “This is my last warning—”   “Not Harry! Please ...have mercy...have mercy.... Not Harry! Not Harry!  Please—I’ll do anything—”   “Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!”   He couldhaveforcedherawayfromthecrib,butit seemed moreprudentto  finish them all. . . .   The green light flashed around the room and she dropped like her husband.  The child had not cried all this time. He could stand, clutching the bars of  his crib and he looked up into the intruder’s face with a kind of bright interest,  perhaps thinking that it was his father who hid beneath the cloak, making more  pretty light, and his mother would pop up any moment, laughing—   He pointed the wand very carefullyinto the boy’s face. He wanted to see it  happen,the destructionofthisone, inexplicabledanger.Thechildbegantocry.  It had seen that he was notJames. He did not like it crying, he had never been  able to stomachthe small ones whining in the orphanage—   “Avada Kedavra!”   And then he broke; He was nothing, nothing but pain and terror, and he  must hide himself, not here in the rubble of the ruined house, where the child  was trapped and screaming, but far away. . . far away. . .   “No,” he moaned.   The snake rustled on the filthy, cluttered floor, and he had killed the boy, and  yethe was the boy...   “No... ”   And now he stood at the broken window of Bathilda’s house, immersed in  memories of his greatest loss, and at his feet the great snake slithered over bro   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    kenchinaandglass...He lookeddownandsaw something...something incredible.  . .   “No... ”   “Harry, it’s all right, you’re all right.”   Hestoopeddownandpickedupthe smashed photograph.Therehewas,the  unknown thief he was seeking. . . .   “No...Idropped it...Idropped it... ”   “Harry, it’s okay, wake up, wake up!”   Hewas Harry...Harry, notVoldemort...and the thing thatwas rustling  was nota snake...He opened his eyes.   “Harry,” Hermione whispered. ”Do you feel all—all right?”   “Yes,” he lied.   He was in the tent, lying on one of the lower bunks beneath a heap of blankets. He couldtellthatitwas almostdawnbythe stillnessandthe qualityof  the cold, flat light beyond the canvas ceiling. He was drenched in sweat; he  could feel it on the sheets and blankets.   “We got away.”   “Yes,” said Hermione, ”I had to use a Hover Charm to get you into your  bunk,Icouldn’t lift you.You’ve been...Well, youhaven’t been quite... ”   There were purple shadows under her brown eyes and he noticed a small  sponge in her hand. She had been wiping his face.   “You’ve been ill,” she finished, ”Quite ill.”   “How long ago did we leave?”   “Hours ago. It’s nearly morning.”   “And I’ve been... what, unconscious?”   “Not exactly,” said Hermione uncomfortable,”You’ve been shouting and moaningand... things,”sheaddedinatonethatmadeHarryfeel uneasy.Whathad  he done? Screamed curses likeVoldemort, cried like the babyin the crib?   “I couldn’tgetthe Horcruxoffyou,” Hermionesaid,andheknewshewanted  to change the subject. ”It was stuck, stuck to your chest. You’ve got a mark;  I’msorry,Ihadtousea SeveringCharmtogetitaway.Thesnakebityoutoo,   
 but I’ve cleaned the wound and put some dittany on it.   He pulled the sweatyT-shirthewas wearingawayfrom himself and looked  down. There was a scarlet oval over his heart where the locket had burned  him. He could also see the half-healed puncture marks to his forearm.   “Where’ve you put the Horcrux?”   “Inmybag.Ithinkwe shouldkeepitofffora while.”   He layback on his pillow and looked into her pinched grayface.   “We shouldn’t have gone to Godric’s Hollow. It’s my fault, it’s all my fault,  Hermione, I’m sorry.”   “It’s not your fault,I wantedtogo too,Ireally thought Dumbledore might  have left the sword there for you.”   “Yeah, well.... we got that wrong, didn’t we?”   “What happened, Harry? What happened when she took you upstairs?Was  the snake hiding somewhere? Did it just come out and kill her and attackyou?”   “No,” he said. ”She was the snake...or the snakewas her...all along.”   “W—what?”   He closed his eyes. He could still smell Bathilda’s house on him. It made  the whole thing horribly vivid.   “Bathilda must’ve been deada while. The snakewas...was inside her.YouKnow- Who put it there in Godric’s Hollow, to wait. You were right. He knew  I’dgo back.”   “The snake was inside her?”   He opened his eyes again. Hermione looked revolted, nauseated. “Lupin  said there would be magic we’d never imagined,” Harry said, ”She didn’t want  to talk in front of you, because it was Parseltongue, all Parseltongue, and I  didn’t realize, but of course I could understand her. One we were up in the  room,the snake senta messagetoYou-Know-Who. I heardit happen inside  myhead,Ifelthimget excited,hesaidtokeepmethere...andthen....”   He remembered the snake coming out of Bathilda’s neck; Hermione did not  need to know the details.   “...shechanged,changed into the snake, and attacked.”   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    He looked down at the puncture marks.   “Itwasn’t supposedto killme,justkeepme there tillYou-Know-Who came.”   If he had only managed to kill the snake, it would have been worth it, all of  it...Sickat heart,hesatup threwbackthe covers.   “Harry, no, I’m sure you ought to rest!”   “You’re the one who needs sleep. No offense, but you look terrible. I’m fine.  I’ll keep watchfor a while. Where’s my wand?”   She did not answer, she merely looked at him.   “Where’s my wand, Hermione?”   She was biting her lip, and tears swam in her eyes.   “Harry... ”   “Where’s my wand?”   She reached down beside the bed and held it out to him.   The holly and phoenix wand was nearly severed in two. One fragile strand  of phoenix feather kept both pieces hanging together. The wood had splintered  apart completely. Harry took it into his hands as though it was a living thing  that had suffered a terrible injury. He could not think properly. Everything  was a blur of panic and fear. Then he held out the wand to Hermione.   “Mend it. Please.”   “Harry,Idon’t think, when its broken like this—”   “Please, Hermione, try!”   “R-Reparo.”   The handling half of the wand resealed itself. Harry held it up.   “Lumos!”   The wand sparked feebly, then went out. Harry pointed it at Hermione.   “Expelliarmus!”   Hermione’s wand gave a little jerk, but did not leave her hand. The feeble  attempt at magic was too muchfor Harry’s wand, whichsplit into two again.  He staredatit, aghast, unableto takein whathewas seeing...thewand that  had survived so much...   “Harry,” Hermione whispered so quietly he could hardly hear her. “I’m so,so   
 sorry. Ithink it was me. As we were leaving, you know, the snake was coming  for us, and so I cast a Blasting Curse, and it rebounded everywhere, and it  must have—must have hit—”   “It was an accident,” said Harry mechanically. He felt empty, stunned.  ”We’ll—we’ll find a wayto repair it.”   “Harry, I don’t think we’re going to be able to,” said Hermione, the tears  trickling down her face. ”Remember... remember Ron? When he broke his  want, crashing the car? It was never the same again, he had to get a new one.”   Harry thoughtof Ollivander, kidnappedand held hostagebyVoldemort;of  Gregorovitch,whowasdead.Howwashesupposedtofind himselfanewwand?   “Well,” he said, in a falsely matter-of-fact voice, ”well, I’ll just borrow yours  for now, then. WhileIkeepwatch.”   Herfaceglazedwithtears,Hermionehandedoverherwand,andhelefther  sitting beside his bed, desiring nothing more than to get awayfrom her.   
 CHAPTER  17.  BATHILDA’S  SECRET    
 Chapter  18    The  Life  and  Lies  of  Albus  Dumbledore    T T he sun was coming up: The pure, colorless vastness of the sky  stretched over him, indifferent to him and his suffering. Harry sat  down in the tent entrance and took a deep breath of clean air. Simply  to be alive to watchthe sun rise over the sparkling snowy hillside ought to  have been the greatest treasure on earth, yet he could not appreciate it: His  senses had been spiked by the calamity of losing his wand. He looked out over  a valley blanketed in snow, distant churchbells chiming through the glittering  silence.   Without realizing it, he was digging his fingers into his arms as if he were  trying to resist physical pain. He had spilled his own blood more times than  he could count; he had lost all the bones in his right arm once; this journey  had already given him scars to his chest and forearm to join those on his hand  and forehead, but never, until this moment, had he felt himself to be fatally  weakened, vulnerable,and naked, as though the best part of his magical power  had been torn from him. He knew exactly what Hermione would say if he  expressed any of this: The wand is only as good as the wizard. But she was  wrong, his case was different. She had not felt the wand spin like the needle of   303   
 CHAPTER  18.  THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    a compass and shoot golden flames at his enemy. He had lost the protection of  thetwin cores,andonlynowthatitwasgonedidhe realizehowmuchhehad  been counting upon it.   He pulled the pieces of the broken wand out of his pocket and, without  looking at them, tucked them away in Hagrid’s pouch around his neck. The  pouch was now too full of broken and useless objects to take any more. Harry’s  hand brushed the old Snitchthrough the moleskin and for a moment he had to  fightthetemptationtopullitoutand throwitaway. Impenetrable, unhelpful,  useless, like everything else Dumbledore had left behind—   And his fury at Dumbledore broke over him now like lava, scorching him inside,  wiping out every other feeling. Out of sheer desperation they had talked  themselves into believing that Godric’s Hollow held answers, convinced themselves  that they were supposed to go back, that it was all part of some secret  path laid out for them by Dumbledore; but there was no map, no plan. Dumbledore  had left them to grope in the darkness, to wrestle with unknown and  undreamed-of terrors, alone and unaided. Nothingwas explained, nothingwas  given freely, they had no sword, and now, Harry had no wand. And he had  dropped the photographof the thief, andit would surelybe easy now forVoldemorttofindoutwhohewas.... Voldemorthadallthe information now....   “Harry?”   Hermione looked frightened that he might curse her with her own wand.  Her face streaked with tears, she crouched down beside him, two cups of tea  trembling in her hands and something bulky under her arm.   “Thanks,” he said, taking one of the cups.   “Doyou mindifItalkto you?”   “No,” he said because he did not want to hurt her feelings.   “Harry,youwantedto knowwho that maninthe picturewas.Well...I’ve  got the book.”   Timidly she pushed it onto his lap, a pristine copy of The Life and Lies of  Albus Dumbledore.   “Where—how—?”   
 “Itwasin Bathilda’ssittingroom,justlyingthere....Thisnotewassticking  out of the top of it.”   Hermione read the few lines of spiky, acid-green writing aloud,   “DearBatty,Thanksforthehelp. Here’sacopyofthebook,hopeyoulikeit.  You said everything, even if you don’t remember it, Rita. Ithink it must have  arrived while the real Bathilda was alive, but perhaps she wasn’t in any fit  state to read it?”   “No, she probably wasn’t.”   Harry looked down upon Dumbledore’s face and experienceda surgeof savage  pleasure: Now he would know all the things that Dumbledore had never  thought it was worth telling him, whether Dumbledore wanted him to or not.   “You’re still really angry at me, aren’t you?” said Hermione; he looked up  to see fresh tears leaking out of her eyes, and knew that his anger must have  shown in his face.   “No,”he said quietly. “No, Hermione,Iknowitwasan accident. You were  trying to get us out of there, and you were incredible. I’dbe dead if you hadn’t  been there to help me.”   He tried to return her watery smile, then turned his attention to the book.  Its spine was stiff; it had clearly never been opened before. He riffled through  the pages, looking for photographs. He came across the one he sought almost  at once, the young Dumbledore and his handsome companion, roaring with  laughter at some long-forgotten joke. Harry dropped his eyes to the caption:   Albus  Dumbledore,  shortly  after  his  mother’s  death  with  his  friend  Gellert  Grindelwald.    Harry gasped at the last word for several long moments. Grindelwald. His  friend Grindelwald. he looked sideways at Hermione, who was still contemplating  the name as though she could not believe her eyes. Slowly she looked  up at Harry.   “Grindelwald?”   Ignoring the remainder of the photographs,Harry searched the pages around   
 CHAPTER  18.  THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    themfora recurrenceofthatfatalname.Hesoon discovereditandreadgreedily,  but became lost: It was necessary to go farther backto make sense of it all,  and eventuallyhefound himselfatthe startofachapter entitled“The Greater  Good.”Together,heand Hermione startedto read:   Now approaching his eighteenth birthday, Dumbledore left Hogwartsinablazeof  glory—HeadBoy,Prefect,Winnerofthe Barnabus  Finkley Prize for Exceptional Spell-Casting, British Youth RepresentativetotheWizengamot, Gold Medal-Winnerfor Ground-Breaking  Contribution to the International Alchemical Conference in Cairo.  Dumbledore intended, next,to takeaGrandTour with Elphias “Dogbreath”  Doge, the dim-witted but devoted sidekickhe had picked up  at school.   The two young men were staying at the Leaky Cauldron in London,  preparing to depart for Greece the following morning, when an  owl arrived bearing news of Dumbledore’s mother’s death. “Dogbreath”  Doge, who refused to be interviewed for this book, has given  the public his own sentimental version of what happened next. He  representsKendra’s death asa tragic blow, and Dumbledore’s decision  to give up his expedition as an act of noble self-sacrifice.   Certainly Dumbledore returned to Godric’s Hollow at once, supposedly  to “care” for his younger brother and sister. But how much  care did he actually give them?   “he were a head case, that Aberforth,” said Enid Smeek, whose  family lived on the outskirts of Godric’s Hollow at that time. “Rand  wild, ’Course, with his mum and dad gone you’dhave felt sorry for  him, only he kept chucking goat dung at my head. I don’t think  Albuswas fussed about him,I never saw them together, anyway.”   SowhatwasAlbusdoing,ifnot comfortinghiswildyoung brother?  The answer, it seems,is ensuring the continued imprisonment of his  sister. For, though her first jailer had died, there was no change in   
 the pitiful condition of Ariana Dumbledore. Her very existence continued  to be known only to those few outsiders who,like “Dogbreath”  Doge could be counted upon to believe in the story of her “ill health.”   Another such easily satisfied friend of the family was Bathilda  Bagshot, the celebrated magical historian who has lived in Godric’s  Hollow for many years. Kendra, of course, had rebuffed Bathilda  when she first attempted to welcome the family to the village. Several  years later, however, the author sent an owl to Albus at Hogwarts, havingbeenfavorably impressedbyhispaperon trans-species  transformation in TransfigurationToday. Thisinitial contact led to  acquaintance with the entire Dumbledore family. At the time of  Kendra’s death, Bathilda was the only person in Godric’s Hollow  who was on speaking terms with Dumbledore’s mother.   Unfortunately, the brilliance that Bathilda exhibited earlier in  her life has now dimmed. “The fire’s lit, but the cauldron’s empty,”  as Ivor Dillonsby put it to me, or, in Enid Smeek’s slightly earthier  phrase, “She’snuttyas squirrelpoo.” Nevertheless,acombinationof  tried-and-tested reporting techniques enabled me to extract enough  nuggets of hard fact to string together the whole scandalous story.   LiketherestoftheWizardingworld, BathildaputsKendra’spremature  death downtoabackfiringcharm,a story repeatedby Albus  and Aberforth in later years. Bathilda also parrots the family line on  Ariana, calling her “frail” and “delicate.” On one subject, however,  Bathildaiswellworththe effortIputin procuringVeritaserum,for  she, and she alone, knows the full story of the best-kept story of Al- bus Dumbledore’s life. Now revealed for the first time, it calls into  question everything that his admirers believed of of Dumbledore:  his supposed hatred of the Dark Arts, his opposition to the oppression  of Muggles, even his devotion to his own family.   The very same summer that Dumbledore went home to Godric’s  Hollow, now an orphan and head of the family, Bathilda Bagshot   
 CHAPTER  18.  THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    agreed to accept into her home her great-nephew, Gellert Grindelwald.    The name of Grindelwald is justly famous: In a list of Most DangerousDarkWizardsofAllTime, he wouldmissoutonthetopspot  only because You-Know-Who arrived, a generation later, to steal  his crown. As Grindelwald never extended his campaign of terror  to Britain, however, the details of his rise to power are not widely  known here.   Educated at Durmstrang, a school famous even then for its unfortunate  tolerance of the Dark Arts, Grindelwald showed himself  quite as precociously brilliant as Dumbledore. Rather than channel  his abilities into the attainment of awards and prizes, however,  Gellert Grindelwald devoted himself to other pursuits. At sixteen  years old, even Durmstrang felt it could no longer turn a blind eye  to the twisted experiments of Gellert Grindelwald, and he was expelled.    Hitherto, all that has been known of Grindelwald’s next movements  is that he “traveled abroad for some months.” It can now be  revealed that Grindelwald chose to visit his great-aunt in Godric’s  Hollow,and that there,intensely shocking though it will be for many  to hear it, he struckup a close friendship with none other than Al- bus Dumbledore.   “He seemed a charming boy to me,” babbles Bathilda, “whatever  he becamelater. NaturallyIintroducedhimtopoorAlbus,whowas  missing the company of lads his own age. The boys took to each  other at once.”   They certainly did. Bathilda shows me a letter, kept by her, that  Albus Dumbledore send Gellert Grindelwald in the dead of night.   “Yes, even after they’d spent all day in discussion—both such   brilliant young boys, they got on like a cauldron on fire—I’d some   times hear an owl tapping at Gellert’s bedroom window, deliveringa   
 letter from Albus! An idea would have struckhim, and then he had  to let Gellert know immediately!”   And what ideas they were. Profoundly shocking though Albus  Dumbledore’sfans will find it, here are the thoughts of their seventeenyear- old hero, as relayed to his new best friend. (A copy of the original  letter maybe seen on page 463.)   Gellert—   Your point about Wizard dominance being FOR THE  MUGGLES’OWN GOOD—this,Ithinkisthe crucialpoint.  Yes,we have been given power and yes, that power gives up  the right to rule, but it also gives us responsibilities over  the ruled.We must stress this point,it willbethefoundation  stone upon which we build. Where we are opposed, as  we surelywill be, this must be the basis of all our counter- arguments. We seize control FOR THE GREATER GOOD.  And from this itfollows that where we meet resistance, we  mustuseonlytheforcethatis necessaryandnomore.(This  was your mistake at Durmstrang! ButI do not complain,  because if you had not been expelled, we would never have  met.)   Albus   Astonished and appalled though his many admirers will be, this  letter constitutes proof that Albus Dumbledore once dreamed of overthrowing  the Statute of Secrecy and establishingWizard rule over  Muggles. What a blow for those who have always portrayed Dumbledore  as the Muggle-borns’ greatest champion! How hollow those  speeches promoting Muggle rights seem in the light of this damning  new evidence! How despicable does Albus Dumbledore appear, busy  plotting his rise to power when he should have been mourning his  mother and caring for his sister!   
 CHAPTER  18.  THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    No doubt those determined to keep Dumbledore on his crumbling  pedestal will bleat that he did not, after all, put his plans into action,  that he must have suffered a change of heart, that he came to his  senses. However, the truth seems altogether more shocking.   Barely two months into their great new friendship. Dumbledore  and Grindelwald parted, never to see each other again until they  met for their legendary dual (for more,seechapter 22). What caused  this abrupt rupture? Had Dumbledore come to his senses? Had he  told Grindelwald he wanted no more part in his plans? Alas, no.   “ItwaspoorlittleArianadying,Ithink,thatdidit,”says Bathilda.  “It came as an awful shock. Gellert was there in the house when it  happened, and he came backto my house all of a dither, told me he  wantedtogohomethe nextday.Terribly distressed,youknow.SoI  arrangedaPortkey and thatwas the lastI sawof him.   “Albus was beside himself at Ariana’s death. It was so dreadful  for those two brothers. They had lost everybody except eachother.  No wonder tempers ran a little high. Aberforth blamed Albus, you  know, as people will under these dreadful circumstances. But Aberforth  always talked a little madly, poor boy. All the same, breaking  Albus’s nose t the funeral was not decent. It would have destroyed  Kendra to see hersons fighting like that, across her daughter’sbody.  Ashame Gellert couldnothavestayedforthe funeral....He would  have beena comfortto Albus,at least.... ”   This dreadful coffin-side brawl, known only to those few who attended  Ariana Dumbledore’s funeral, raises several questions. Why  exactly did Aberforth Dumbledore blame Albus for his sister’sdeath?  Was it, as “Batty” pretends,a mere effusion of grief? Or could there  have been some more concrete reason for his fury? Grindelwald, expelled  from Durmstrang for near-fatal attacks upon fellow students,  fled the country hours after the girl’sdeath, and Albus (out of shame  or fear?) never saw him again, not until forced to do so by the pleas   
 of theWizarding world.   Neither Dumbledore nor Grindelwald ever seem to have referred  to this brief boyhood friendship in later life. However, there can be  no doubt that Dumbledore delayed, for some five years of turmoil,  fatalities, and disappearances, his attack upon Grindelwald. Was  it a lingering affection for the man or fear of exposure as his once  best friend that caused Dumbledore to hesitate? Was it only reluctantly  that Dumbledore set out to capture the man he was once so  delighted he had met?   And how did the mysterious Ariana die?Was she the inadvertent  victim of some Dark rite? Did she stumble across something she  ought not to have done, as the two young men sat practicing for  their attempt at glory and domination? Is it possible that Ariana  Dumbledore was the first person to die “for the greater good”?   The chapter ended here and Harry looked up. Hermione had reached the  bottom of the page before him. She tugged the book out of Harry’s hands,  looking a little alarmed by his expression, and closed it without looking at it,  as though hiding something indecent.   “Harry—”   But he shook his head. Some inner certainty had crashed down inside him;  it was exactly as he had felt after Ron left. He had trusted Dumbledore, believed  him the embodiment of goodness and wisdom. All was ashes: How  much more could he lose? Ron, Dumbledore, the phoenix wand ... “Harry.”  She seemed to have heard his thoughts. “Listen to me. It—it doesn’t make  very nice reading—”   “Yeah, you could saythat—”  “—but don’t forget, Harry this is Rita Skeeter writing.”  “You did read that letter to Grindelwald, didn’t you?”  “Yes, I—I did.” She hesitated, looking upset, cradling her tea in her cold    hands.“Ithinkthat’stheworstbit.Iknow Bathildathoughtitwasalljusttalk,   
 CHAPTER  18.  THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    bur ’For the Greater Godd’ became Grindelwald’s slogan, his justification for all  the atrocitieshe committed later. And...from that...it looks like Dumbledore  gave him the idea. They say’For the Greater Godd’ was even carved over the  entrance to Nurmengard.”   “What’s Nurmengard?”   “The prison Grindelwald had built to hold his opponents. He ended up in  there himself, once Dumbledore had caught him. Anyway, it’s—it’s an awful  though that Dumbledore’s ideas helped Grindelwald rise to power But on the  other hand, even Rita can’t pretend that they knew eachother for morethana  few months one summer when they were both really young, and—”   “I thought you’d saythat,” said Harry. He did not want to let his anger spill  out at her, but it was hard to keep his voice steady. “I thought you ’d say’They  were young.’ They were the same age as we are now. And here we are, risking  our lives to fight the Dark Arts, and there he was, in a huddle with his new  best friend, plotting their rise to power over the Muggles.”   Histemperwouldnot remainincheckmuchlonger:Hestoodupandwalked  around, trying to work some of it off.   “I’m not truingto defendwhat Dumbledore wrote,”said Hermione. “All that  ’right to rule’ rubbish, it’s’Magic Is Might’ allover again. But Harry,his mother  had just died, he was stuckalone in the house—”   “Alone? Hewasn’t alone! He had his brother and sisterfor company, his  Squib sister he was keeping locked up—”   “I don’t believe it,” said Hermione. She stood up too. “Whatever was wrong  with that girl,Idon’t think shewasa Squib. The Dumbledore we know would  never, ever have allowed—”   “The Dumbledore we thought we knew didn’t want to conquer Muggles by  force!” Harry shouted, his voice echoing across the empty hilltop, and several  blackbirds rose into the air, squawking and spiraling against the pearly sky.   “He changed, Harry, he changed! It’s as simple as that! Maybe he did  believethosethingswhenhewas seventeen,butthewholeoftherestofhislife  was devoted to fighting the Dark Arts! Dumbledore was the one who stopped   
 Grindelwald, the one who always voted for Muggle protection and Muggle born  rights, who foughtYou-Know-Who from the start, and who died trying to bring  him down!”   Rita’s booklay on the ground between them, so that the faceof Albus Dumbledore  smiled dolefully at both.   “Harry, I’m sorry, butIthink the real reason you’re so angry is that Dumbledore  never told you any of this himself.”   “MaybeIam!” Harry bellowed, andhe flung his arms over his head, hardly  knowingwhetherhewastryingtoholdinhisangerorprotect himselffromthe  weight of his own disillusionment. “Look what he asked from me, Hermione!  Risk your life, Harry! And again! And again! And don’t expect me to explain  everything, just trust me blindly, trust thatI know what I’m doing, trust me  even thoughIdon’t trust you! Never the whole truth! Never!”   his voice cracked with the strain, and they stood looking at each other in  the whiteness and the emptiness, and Harry felt they were as insignificant s  insects beneath that wide sky.   “He loved you,” Hermione whispered. “I know he loved you.”   Harry dropped his arms.   “I don’t know who he loved, Hermione, but it was never me. This isn’t love,  the mess he’s left me in. He shared a damn sight more of what he was really  thinking with Gellert Grindelwald than he ever shared with me.”   Harry picked up Hermione’s wand, whichhe dropped in the snow, and sat  backdown in the entrance to the tent.   “Thanksforthe tea. I’ll finishthewatch.Yougetbackinthewarm.”   She hesitated, but recognized the dismissal. She picked up the book and  then walked backpast him into the tent, but as she did so, she brushed the top  of his head lightly with her hand. He closed his eyes at her touch, and hated  himself for wishing that what she said was true: that Dumbledore had really  cared.   
 CHAPTER  18.  THE  LIFE  AND  LIES  OF  ALBUS  DUMBLEDORE    
 Chapter  19    The  Silver  Doe    I I t was snowing by the time Hermione took over the watch at midnight.  Harry’s dreams were confused and disturbing: Nagini wove in and out  of them, first througha gigantic, crackedring, then througha wreathof  Christmas roses. He woke repeatedly, panicky, convinced that somebody had  called out to him in the distance, imagining that the wind whipping arund the  tent was footsteps or voices.   Finally he got up in the darkness and joined Hermione, who was huddled  in the entrance to the tent reading AHistory of Magicby the lightof thewand.  The snow was still falling thickly, and she greeted with relief his suggestion of  packing up early and moving on.   “We’ll go somewhere more sheltered,” she agreed, shivering as she pulled  ona sweatshirtoverherpajamas.“IkeptthinkingIcouldhearpeoplemoving  outside,I even thoughtI saw somebody once or twice.”   Harry paused in the act of pulling on a jumper and glanced at the silent,  motionless Sneakoscope on the table.   “I’m sure I imagined it,” said Hermione, looking nervous. “The snow in  the dark, it plays tricks on your eyes.... But perhaps we ought to Diapparate  under the Invisibility Cloak, just in case?”   Half an hour later, with the tent packed, Harry was wearing the Horcrux,   315   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    and Hermione clutching the beaded bag, they Diapparated. The usual tightness  engulfed them; Harry’s feet parted company with the snowy ground, then  slammed hard onto what felt like frozen earth covered with leaves.   “Where are we?” he asked, peering around at a fresh mass of trees as  Hermione opened the beaded bag and began tugging at tent poles.   “TheForest of Dean,” she said. “‘I camp camping here once with my mum  and dad.”   Here too snow lay on the trees all around and it was bitterly cold, but they  were at least protected from the wind. They spent most of the dayinside the  tent, huddled for warmth around the useful bright blue flames that Hermione  was so adept at producing, and whichcould be scooped up and carried around  in a jar. Harry felt as though he was recuperating from some brief but severe  illness; an impression reinforced by Hermione’s solicitousless. That afternnon  fresh flakes drifted down upon then, so that even their sheltered clearing had  a fresh dusting of powdery snow.   After two nights of little sleep,Harry’ssenses seemed more alert than usual.  Their escape from Godric’s Hollow had been so narrow thatVoldemort seemed  somehow closer than before, more threatening. As darkness drew in again  Harry refused Hermione’s offer to keep watchand told her to go to bed.   Harry moved an old cushion into the tent mouth and sat down, wearing all  the sweaters he owned but even so, still shivery. The darkness deepened with  the passing hours until it was virtually impenetrable. he was on the point of  taking out the Marauder’s Map, so as to watchGinny’s dot for a while, before  he remembered thatitwasthe Chrostmas holidaysand thatshe wouldbeback  at the Burrow.   Every tiny movement seemed magnified in the vastness of the forest. Harry  knew that it must be full of living creatures, but he wished they would all remain  stil and silent so that he could sparate their innocent scurryings and  prowlings from noises that might proclaim other, sinister movements. He remembered  the sound of a cloak slithering ove rdead leaves many years ago,  and at once thought he heard it again before mentally shaking himself. Their   
 protective enchantments had worked for weeks; why should they break now?  Andyethecouldnotthrowoffthefeelingthatsomethingwas differenttonight.   Several time he jerked upright, he neckaching because he had fallen asleep,  slumped at an awkward angle against the side of the tent. The night reached  such a depth of velvety blackness that he might have been suspended in limbo  between Disapparition and Apparition. He had just held up a hand in front of  his face to see whether he could make out his fingers when it happened.   Abright silver light appeared right ahead of him, moving through the trees.  Whatever the source, it was moving soundlessly. The light seemed simply to  drift toward him.   He jumped to his feet, his voice frozen in his throat, and raised Hermione’s  wand. He screwed up his eyes as the light became blinding, the trees in front  ofit pitch-blackin silhouette, and still the thing camecloser....   And then the source of the light stepped out from behind an oak. It was a  silver-white doe, moon-bright and dazzling, picking her way over the ground,  still silent, and leaving no hoofprints in the fine powdering of snow. She stepped  toward him, her beautiful head with its wide, long-lashed eyes held high.   Harry stared at the creature, filled with wonder, not at her strangeness, but  ather inexplicable familiarity.Hefeltthathehadbeenwaitingforherto come,  but that he had forgotten, until that moment, that they had arranged to meet.  His impules to shout for Hermione, which had been so string a moment ago,  had gone. He knew, he would have staked his life on it, that she had come for  him, and him alone.   They gazed at eachother for several long moments and then she turned an  walked away.   “No,” he said, and his voice was cracked with lackof use. “Come back!”   She continued to step deliberately through the trees, and soon her brightness  was striped by their think black trunks. For one trembling second he  hesitated. Caution murmured it could be a trick, a lure, a trap. But instinct,  overwhelminginstinct, told him that thiswas not Dark Magic. He set offin  pursuit.   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    Snow crunched beneath his feet, but the doe made no noise as she passed  through the trees, for she was nothing but light. Deeper and deeper into the  forest she led him, and Harrywalked quickly, sure that when she stopped, she  would allow him to approachher properly. And then she would speak and the  voice would tell him what he needed to know.   At last, she came to a halt. She turned her beautiful head toward him once  more, and he broke into a run, a question burning in him, but as he opened his  lips to ask it, she vanished.   Though the darkness had swallowed her whole, her burnished image was  still imprinted on his retinas; it obscured his vision, brightening when he lowered  his eyelids, disorienting him. Now fear came; Her presence had meant  safety.   “Lumos!” he whispered, and the wand-tip ignited.   The imprint of the doe faded awaywith every blink of his eyes as he stood  there, listening to the sounds of the forest, to distant crackles of twigs, soft  swishes of snow. Was he about to be attacked? Had she enticed him into an  ambush?Washe imaginingthatsomebodystoodbeyondthereachofthewandlight,  watching him?   He held the wand higher. Nobody ran out him, no flash of green light burst  from behind a tree. Why, then, had she led him to this spot?   Something gleamed in the light of the wand, and Harry spun about, but all  thatwastherewasasmall,frozenpool,itscrackedblacksurface glittereingas  he raised the wand higher to examine it.   He moved forward rather cautiously and looked down. Theice reflected his  distorted shadow and the beam of wandlight, but deep below the thick, misty  graycarapace, something else glinted.Agreat silver cross ...   His heart skipped into his mouth: He dropped to his knees at the pool’s edge  and angled the wand so as to flood the bottom of the pool with as muchlight  as possible.Aglintof deep red...Itwasa sword with glittering rubiesin its  hilt....The swordof Gryffindorwaslyingatthe bottomofthe forestpool.   Barely breathing, he stared down at it. How was this possible? How could   
 it have come to be lying in a forest pool, this close to the place where they  were camping? Had some unknown magic drawn Hermione to this spot, orwas  the doe, which he had taken to be a Patronus, some kind of guardian of the  pool? Or had the sword been put into the pool after they had arrived, precisely  because they were here? In which case, where was the person who had wanted  to pass it to Harry? Again he directed the wand at the surrounding trees and  bushes, searching for a human outline, for the glint of an eye, but he could not  see anyone there. All the same, a little more fear leavened his exhileration as  he returned his attention to the sword reposing upon the bottom of the frozen  pool.   He pointed the want at the silvery shape and murmured, “Accio Sword.”   It did not stir. He had not expected it to. IF it had been that easy, the sword  would have lain on the ground for him to pickup, not in the depths of a frozen  pool. He set off around the circle of ice, thinking hard about the last time the  sword had delivered itself to him. He had been in terrible danger then, and  had asked for help.   “Help,” he murmured, but the sword remained upon the pool bottom, indifferent,  motionless.   What was it, Harry asked himself (walking again), that Dumbledore had  told him the last time he had retrieved the sword? Only a true Gryffindor  could have pulled that out of the hat. And what were the qualities that defined  a Gryffindor? Asmall voice inside Harry’s head answered him: Their daring,  nerve, and chivalry set Gryffindors apart.   Harry stoppedwalking and let outa long sigh, his smoky breath dispersing  rapidly upon the frozen air. He knew what he had to do. If he was honest with  himself, he had thought it might come to this from the moment he had spotted  the sword through the ice.   Heglancedatthe surroundingtrees again,butwas convinced that noobdy  wasgoingto attackhim.Theyhadhadtheirchanceashewalkedalone through  the forest, had had plenty of opportunity as he examined the pool. The only  reasontodelayatthispointwas becausetheimmediate prospectwassodeeply   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    uninviting.   With fumbling fingeresHarry startedto removehismanylayersofclothing.  Where “chivalry” entered this, he thought ruefully, he was not entirely sure,  unless it counted as chivalrous that he was not calling for Hermione to do it in  his stead.   An owl hooted somewhere as he stripped off, and he thought with a pang  of Hedwig. He was shivering now, his teeth chattering horribly, and yet he  continued to strip of until at last he stood there in is underwear, bearfooted  in the snow. He placed the pouchcontaining his wand, his mother’s letter, the  shardof Sirius’smirror,andtheold Snitchontopofhisclothes,thenhe pointed  Hermione’s wand at the ice.   “Diffindo.”   It cracked with a sound like a bullet in the silence. The surface of the pool  brokeandchunksofdarkicerockedonthe ruffledwater.AsfarasHarrycould  judge, it was not deep, but to retrieve the sword he would have to submerge  himself completely.   Contemplatingthetaskaheadwouldnotmakeit easierorthewaterwarmer.  He stepped to the pool’s edge and placed Hermione’s wand on the ground, still  lit. Then, trying not to imagine how muchcoulder he was about to become or  how violently he would soon be shivering, he jumped.   Every pore of his body screamed in protest; The very air in his lungs seems  to freeze solid as he was submerged to his shoulders in the frozen water. He  couldhardly breathe; tremblingso violently,thewaterlapped overtheedgesof  the pool, he felt for the blad with his numb feet. He only wanted to dive once.   Harry put off the moment of total submersion from second to second, gasping  and shaking, until he told himself that it must be done, gathered all his  courage, and dived.   The cold was agony: It attacked him like fire. His brain itself seemed to  have frozen as he pushed through the dark water to the bottom and reached  out, groping for the sword. His fingers closed around the hilt; he pulled it  upward.   
 Then something closed tight around his neck. He though of water weeds,  though nothing had brushed him as he dived, and raised his empty hand to  free himself. It was not weed: The chain of the Horcrux had tightened and was  slowly constricting his windpipe.   Harry kicked out wildly, trying to push humself back to the surface, but  merely propelled himself into the rockyside of the pool. Thrashing,suffocating,  he scrabbled at the strangling chain, his frozen fingers unable to loosen it, and  now little lights were popping inside his head, and he was going to drown,  there was nothing left, nothing he could do, and the arms that closed around  hischest were surely Death’s....   Choking and retching, soaking and colder than he had ever been in his life,  he came to facedown in the snow. Somewhere close by, another person was  panting and coughing and staggering around. Hermione had come again, as  she had come when the snake attacked.... Yet it did not sound like her, not  with those deep coughs, not judgingby the weightof the footsteps....   Harry had no strength to lift his head and see his savior’s identity. All he  could do was raise a shaking hand to his throat and feel the place where the  locket had cut tightly into his flesh. It was gone. Someone had cut him free.  Then a panting voice spoke from over his head,   “Are—you—mental?”   Nothing but the shock of hearning that voice could have given Harry the  strength to get up. Shivering violently, he staggered to his feet. There before  him stood Ron, fully dressed bud drenched to the skin, his hair plastered to his  face, the sword of Gryffindor in one hand and the Horcrux dangling from its  broken chain in the other.   “What the hell,” panted Ron, holding up the Horcrux, which swung backward  and forward on its shortened chain in some parody of hypnosis, “didn’t  you take this thing off before you dived?”   Harry could not answer. The silver doewas nothing,nothing compared with  Ron’s reappearance: he could not believe it. Shuddering with cold, he caught  up the pile of clothes still lying at the water’s edge and began to pull them on.   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    As he dragged sweater after sweater over his head, Harry stared at Ron, half  expecting him to have disappeared every time he lost sight of him, and yet he  had to be real: He had just dived into the pool; he had saved Harry’s life.   “It was y—you?” Harry said at last, his teeth chattering, his voice weaker  than usual due to his near-strangulation.   “Well, yeah,” said Ron, looking slightly confused.   “Y—you cast that doe?”   “What?No,of coursenot!Ithoughtitwasyoudoingit!”   “MyPatronusisa stag.”   “Oh yeah.Ithoughtit looked different.No antlers.”   Harry put Hagrid’s pouchbackaround his neck, pulled on a final sweater,  stooped to pickup Hermione’s wand, and faced Ron again.   “How come you’re here?”   Apparently Ron had hoped that this point would come up later, if at all.   “Well, I’ve—you know—I’ve come back. If—” He cleared his throat. “You  know.You stillwant me.”   There was a pause, in whichthe subject of Ron’s departure seemed to rise  likeawall between them.Yethewashere.Hehad returned.Hehadjustsaved  Harry’s life.   Ron lookded down at his hands. He seemed momentarily surprised to see  the things he was holding.   “Oh yeah,Igot it out,” he said, rather unnecessarily, holding up the sword  for Harry’s inspection. “That’s why you jumped in, right?”   “Yeah,” said Harry. “ButI don’t understand. How did you get here? How  did you find us?”   “Long story,” said Ron. “I’ve been looking for you for hours, it’s a big forest,  isn’t it? And I was just thinking I’d have to kip under a tree and wait for   morning whenI saw that deer coming and you following.”   “You didn’t see anyone else?”   “No,” said Ron, “I—”   
 But he hesitated, glancing at two trees growing close together some yards  away.   “Idid thinkI saw something move over there,butI was runningtothepool  atthetime, becauseyou’dgoneinandyou hadn’t comeup, soI wasn’tgoingto  make a detour to—hey!”   Harry was already hurrying to the place Ron had indicated. The two oaks  grew together: there was a gap of only a few inches between the trunks at  eye level, and ideal place to see but not be seen. The ground around the roots,  however,wasfreeofsnow,andHarrycouldseenosignof footprints.Hewalked  backto where Ron stood waiting, still holding the sword and the Horcrux.   “Anything there?” Ron asked.   “No,” said Harry.   “So how did the sword ever get into that pool?”   “Whoever castthePatronus musthaveputit there.”   They both looked at the ornate silver sword, its rubied hilt glinting a little  in the light from Hermione’s wand.   “You reckon this is the real one?” asked Ron.   “One wayto find out, isn’t there?” said Harry.   The Horcrux was still swinging from Ron’s hand. The locket was twitching  slightly. Harry knew that the ting inside it was agitated again. It had sensed  the presence of the sword and had tried to kill Harry rather than let him possess  it. Now was not the time for long discussions; now was the moment to  desktroy the locket once and for all. Harry looked around, holding Hermione’s  wandhigh,andsawtheplace:a flattishrocklyinginthe shadowofa sycamore  tree.   “Come here,” he said, and he led the way, brushed snow from the rock’s  surface, and held out his hand for the Horcrux. When Ron offered the sword,  however, Harry shook his head.   “No, you should do it.”   “Me?” said Ron, looking shocked. “Why?”   “Becauseyougotthe swordoutofthepool.Ithinkit’s supposedtobeyou.”   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    He was not being kind or generous. As certainly as he had known that  the doe was benign, he knew that Ron had to be the one to wield the sword.  Dumbledore had at least taught Harry something about certain kinds of magic,  of the incalculabe power of certain acts.   “I’m going to open it,” said Harry, “and you stab it. Straightaway, okay?  Because whatever’s in there will put up a fight. The bit of Riddle in the diary  tried to kill me.”   “Hou are you going to open it?” asked Ron. He looked terrified.   “I’m going to ask it to open, usingParseltongue,” said Harry. The answer  cameso readilytohislipsthathe thoughthehadalwaysknownitdeep down:  Perhaps it had taken his recent encounter with Nagini to make him realize it.  He looked at the serpentine Sinlaid with glittering green stones: It was easy  to visualize it as a miniscule snake, curled upon the cold rock.   “No!” said Ron. “No, don’t open it! I’m serious!”  “Why not?” asked Harry. “Let’sget rid of the damn thing,it’sbeen months—  ”   “Because that thing’s bad for me!” said Ron, backing awayfrom the locket  on the rock. “I can’t handle it! I’m not making excuses, Harry, forwhatI was  like, but it affects me worse than it affected you and Hermione, it made me  think stuff—stuffI was thinking anyway, butit made everything worse.Ican’t  explain it, and then I’dtake it off and I’dget my head on straight again, and  then I’dhave to put the effing thing backon—I can’t do it, Harry!”   He had bakced away, the sword dragging at his side, shaking his head.   “You candoit,”saidHarry.“youcan!You’vejustgotthe sword,Iknowit’s  supposed to be you who uses it. Please, just get rid of it, Ron.”   Thesoundofhisnameseemedtoactlikea stimulant.Ronswallowed,then,  still breathing hard through his long nose, moved backtoward the rock.   “Tell me when,” he croaked.   “On three,” said Harry, looking backdown at the locket and narrowing his  eyes, concentrating on the letter S, imagining a serpent, while the contents of  the locket rattled like a trapped cockmatch. It would have been easy to pity it,   
 except that the cut around Harry’s neckstill burned.   “One...two... three... open.”   The last word came as a hiss and a snarl and the golden doors of the locket  swung wide with a little click.   Behind both of the glass windows within blinked a living eye, dark and  handsome asTom Riddle’s eyes had been before he turned them scarlet and  slitp—pupiled.   “Stab,” said Harry, holding the locket steady on the rock.   Ron raised the sword in his shaking hands: The point dangled over the  frantically swiveling eyes, and Harry gripped the locket tightly, bracing himself,  already imagining blood pouring from the empty windows.   Then avoice hissed out from the Horcrux.   “Ihave seen your heart, and it is mine.”   “Don’t listen to it!” Harry said harshly. “Stab it!”   “I have seen your dreams,RonaldWeasley, andI have seen your fears. All  you desire is possible, but all that you dread is also possible. . . . ”   “Stab!” shouted Harry; his voice echoed off the surrounding trees,the sword  point trembled, and Ron gazed down into Riddle’s eyes.   “Least loved, always, by the mother who craved a daughter . . . Least loved,  now,by the girl who prefers your friend ... Secont best, always, eternally overshadowed  ... ”   “Ron, stab it now!” Harry bellowed; He could feel the locket quivering in his  gripandwas scaredofwhatwascoming.Ron raisedtheswordstillhigher,and  as he did so, Riddle’s eyes gleamed scarlet.   Out of the locket’s two windows, out of the eyes, there bloomed, like two  grotesque bubbles, the heads of Harry and Hermione, weirdly distorted.   Ron yelled in shock and backed away as the figures blossomed out of hte  locket, firstchests,thenwaists,thenlegs,untilthey stoodinthelocket,sideby  side like trees with a common root, swaying over Ron and the real Harry, who  had snatched his fingers away from the locket as it burned, suddenly, white- hot.   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    “Ron!” he shouted, but the Riddle-Harry was now speaking with Voldemort’s  voice and Ron was gazing, mesmerized, into his face.   “Why return? We were better without you, happier without you, glad of your  absence....We laughedat your stupidity, your cowardice, your presumption—”   “Presumption!” echoed the Riddle-Hermione, who was more beautiful and  yet more terrible than the real Hermione. She swayed, cackling, before Ron,  who looked horrified yet transfixed, the sword hanging pointlessly at his side.  “Who could look at you, who would ever look at you, beside HarryPotter?What  have you ever done, compared with the Chosen Oe? What are you, compared  with the BoyWho Lived?”   “Ron, stab it, STAB IT!” Harry yelled, but Ron did not move. His eyes were  wide, and the Riddle-Harry and the Riddle-Hermione were reflected in them,  their hair swirling like flames, their eyes shining red, their voices lifted in an  evil duet.   “You mother confessed,” sneered Riddle-Harry,while Riddle-Hermione jeered,  “that she would have preferred me as a son, would be glad to exchange . . . ”   “Who wouldn’t prefer him, what woman would take you, you are nothing,  nothing, nothing to him,” crooned Riddle-Hermione, and she stretched like a  snake and engulfed herself around Riddle-Harry, wrapping him in a close embrace:  Their lips met.   On the ground in front of them, Ron’s face filled with anguish. He raised  the sword high, his arms shaking.   “Do it, Ron!” Harry yelled.   Ron looked toward him, and Harry thought he saw a trace of scarlet in his  eyes.   “Ron—?”   The sword flashed, plunged; Harry threw hilsemf out of the way, there was  aclangof metalandalong,drawn-out scream. Harry whirled around, slipping  inthesnow, wandheldreadytodefend himself:buttherewasnothingtofight.   The monstrous version of himself and Hermione were gone; There was only  Ron, standing there with the sword held slackly in his hand, looking down at   
 the shattered remains of the locket on the flat rock.   Slowly, Harry walked backto him, hardly knowing what to say or do. Ron  was breathing heavily: His eyes were no longer red at all, but their normal  blue; they were also wet.   Harry stopped, pretending he had not seen, and picked up the broken Horcrux.  Ron had pierced the glass in both windows: Riddle’s eyes were gone, and  the stained silk lining of the locket was smoking slightly. The thing that had  lived in the Horcrux had vanished; torturing Ron had been its final act.   TheswordclangedasRon droppedit.Hehadsunktohisknees,hisheadin  his arms. He was shaking, but not, Harry realized, from cold. Harry crammed  the broken locket into his pocket, knelt down beside Ron, and placed a hand  cautiously on his shoulder. He took it as a good sign that Ron did not throw it  off.   “After you left,” he said in a low voice, grateful for the fact that Ron’s face  was hidden, “she cried for a week. Probably longer, only she didn’t want me to  see. There were loads of nights when we never even spoke toeachother. With  you gone... ”   He could not finish; it was only now that Ron was here again that Harry  fully realized how muchhis absense had cost them.   “She’s likemy sister,”he went on.“I loveher likea sisterandI reckonshe  feels the samewayabout me. It’s always been like that,Ithought you knew.”   Ron did not respond, but turned his face away from Harry and wiped his  nose on his sleeve. Harry got to his feet again and walked to where Ron’s  enormous rucksacklayyards away, discarded as Ron had run toward the pool  tosaveHarryfromdrowning.He hoisteditontohisownbackandwalkedback  to Ron, who clambered to his feet as Harry approached, eyes bloodshot but  otherwise composed.   “I’m sorry,”hesaidinathickvoice. “I’m sorryIleft.IknowI ws a—a—”   He looked around at the darkness, as if hoping a bad enough world would  swoop down upon him and claim him.   “You’ve sort of made up for it tonight,” said Harry. “Getting the sword.   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    Finishing of the Horcrux. Saving my life.”   “That makes me sounda lot cooler thanI was,” Ron mumbled.   “Stuff like that always sounds cooler than it really was,” said Harry. “I’ve  been trying to tell you that for years.”   Simultaneously they walked forward and hugged, Harry gripping the still- sopping backof Ron’s jacket.   “And now,” said Harry as they broke apart, “all we’ve got to do is find the  tent again.”   But it ws not difficult. Though the walk through the dark forest with the  doe had seemed lengthy, with Ron my his side the journey backseemed to take  a surprisingly short time. Harry could not wait to wake Hermione, and it was  with a quickening exitement that he entered the tent. Ron lagging a little  behind him.   It was gloriously warm after the pool and the forest, the only illumination  through the bluebell flames still shimmering in a bowl on the floor. Hermione  was fast asleep, curled up under her blankets, and did not move until Harry  had said her name several times.   “Hermione!”   She stirred, then sat up quickly, pushing her hair out of her face.   “What’s wrong? Harry? Are you all right?”   “It’s okay, everything’s fine. More than fine. I’m great. There’s someone  here.”   “What do you mean? Who—?”   She saw Ron, who stoop there holding the sword and dripping onto the  threadbare carpet. Harry backed into a shadowy corner, slipped off Ron’s rucksack,  and attempted to blend in with the canvas.   Hermione slipped out of her bunk and moved like a sleepwalker toward  Ron, her eyes upon his pale face. She stopped right in front of him, her lips  slightly parted, her eyes wide. Ron gave a weak, hopeful smile and half raised  his arms.   Hermione launched herself forward and started punching every inchof him   
 329   that she could reach.   “Ouch—ow—gerroff! What the—? Hermione—OW!”   “You—complete—arse—Ronald—Weasley!”   She punctuated every word with a blow: Ron backed away, shielding his   head as Hermione advanced.   “You—crawl—back—here—after—weeks—and—weeks—oh, where’smy wand?”   She looked as though ready to wrestle it out of Harry’shands and he reacted   instinctively.   “Protego!!”   The invisible shield erupted between Ron and Hermione. The force of it   knocked her backward onto the floor. Spitting hair out of her mouth, she leapt   up again.   “Hermione!” said Harry. “Calm—”   “I will not calm down!” she screamed. Never before had he seen her lose   control like this; she looked quite demented. “Give me backmy wand! Give it   backto me!”   “Hermione, will you please—”   “Don’t you tell me what to do, Harry Potter!” she screeched. “Don’t you  dare! Giveit backnow! AndYOU!”   She was pointing at Ron in dire accusation: It was like a malediction, and  Harry could not blame Ron for retreating several steps.   “I came running after you!Icalled you!Ibegged you to come back!”   “I know,” Ron said. “Hermione, I’m sorry, I’m really—”   “Oh you’re sorry!”   She laughed, a high-pitched, out-of-control sound; Ron looked at Harry for  help, but Harry merely grimaced his helplessness.   “You come back after weeks—weeks—and you think it’s all going to be all  right if you just say sorry?”   “Well, what else canI say?” Ron shouted, and Harrywas glad that Ronwas  fighting back.   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    “Oh,Idon’t know!” yelled Hermione withawful sarcasm. “Rackyour brains,  Ron, that should only take a couple of seconds—”   “Hermione,” interjected Harry who considered this a low blow, “he just  saved my—”   “I don’t care!” she screamed. “I don’t care what he’sdone!Weeks and weeks,  we could have been dead for all he knew—”   “I knew you weren’t dead!” bellowed Ron, drowning her voice for the first  time, and approaching as close as he could with the Shield Charm between  them. “Harry’s all over the Prophet, all over the radio, they’re looking for you  everywhere, all these rumors and mental stories,IknewI’dhear straight offif  you were dead, you don’t know what it’s been like—”   “What it’s been like for you?”   Her voice was now so shirll only bats would be able to hear it soon, but she  had reached a new level of indignation that rendered her temporarily speechless,  and Ron seized his opportunity.   “Iwantedto comebackthe minuteI’dDisapparated,butI walked straight  intoa gangof Snatchers, Hermione, andIcouldn’tgo anywhere!”   “Agangof what?” asked Harry, as Hermione thew herself down intoachair  with her arms and legs crossed so rightly it seemd unlikely that she would  unravel them for several years.   “Snatchers,” said Ron. “They’re everywhere—gangs trying to earn gold by  rounding up Muggle-borns and blood traiter,s, there’s a reward from the Ministryfor  everyone captured.I wasonmyownandIlooklikeImightbeschool  age;theygot really excited, thoughtI wasa Muggle-bornin hiding. Ihadto  talk fast to get out of being dragged to the Ministry.”   “What did you sayto them?”   “Told themI was Stan Shunpike.First personIcould thinkof.”   “And they believed that?”   “They weren’tthe brightest. Oneof themwas definitely part-troll,the smell  off him.... ”   Ron glanced at Hermione. clearly hopeful she might soften at this small   
 instance of humor,but her expression remained stony above her tightly knotted  limbs.   “Anyway, they had a row about whether I was Stan or not. It was a bit  pathetic to be honest, but there were still five of them and only one of me and  they’dtaken my wand. then two of them got into a fight and while the others  were distractedImanaged to hit the one holding me in the stomach, grabbed  hiswand, Disarmedthe bloke holding mine,and Diapparated.Ididn’tdoitso  well, Splinched myself again”—Ron held up his right hand to show two missing  fingernails; Hermione raised her eyebrows coldly—“andI came out miles from  where you were. By the time I got back to that bit of riverbank where we’d  been...you’dgone.”   “Gosh,whatagrippingstory,” Hermionesaidintheloftyvoicesheadopted  when wishing to wound. “You must have been sipmly terrified. Meanwhile  we went to Godric’s Hollow and, let’s think what happened there, Harry? Oh  yes, You-Know-Who’s snake turned up, it nearly killed both of us, and then  You-Know-Who himself arrived and missed us by about a second.”   “What?” Ron said, gaping from her to Harry, but Hermione ignored him.   “Imaging losing fingernails, Harry! That really puts our suffereings into  perspective doesn’t it?”   “Hermione,” said Harry quietly. “Ron just saved my life.”   She appeared not to have heard him.   “onethingIwouldliketoknow, though,”shesaid,fixinghereyesonaspot  a foot over Ron’s head. “How exactly did you find us tonight? That’s important.  Once we know, we’ll be able to make sure we’re not visited by anyone else we  don’t want to see.”   Ron glared at her, then pulled a small silver object from his jeans pocket.   “This.”   She had to look at Ron to see what he was showing them.   “The Deluminator?” she asked, so surprised she forgot to look cold and  fierce.   “It doesn’t just turn the lights on and off,” said Ron. “I don’t know how   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    it works or why it happened then and not any other time, because I’ve been  wanting to come back ever sinceIleft. ButI was listening to the radio really  early on Christmas morning andIheard ...Iheard you.”   He was looking at Hermione.   “You heard me on the radio?” she asked incredulously.   “No. I heard you coming out of my pocket. Your voice,” he held up the  Deluminator again, “came out of this.”   “And what exactly did I say?” asked Hermione, her tone somewhere between  skepticism and curiosity.   “My name. ’Ron.’Andyousaid...sometihng aboutawand....”   Hermione turned a fiery shade of scarlet. Harry remembered. It had been  the first time Ron’s namehad been said aloudby eitherofthem sincetheday  he had left; Hermione had mentions it when talking about repairing Harry’s  wand.   “SoI took it out,” Ron went on, looking at the Deluminator, “and it didn’t  seem differentor anything,butI was sureI’dheardyou.SoI clickedit. And  the light went out in my room, but another light appeared right outside my  window.”   Ron raised his empty hand and pointed in front of him, his eyes focused on  something neither Harry nor Hermione could see.   “Itwasaballoflight,kindof pulsing,andbluis,likethatlikeyouget around  aPortkey, you know?”   “Yeah,” said Harry and Hermione together automatically.   “Iknewthiswasit,”saidRon.“I grabbedmystuffandpackeditthenIput  on my rucksackand wnet out into the garden.   “The littleballoflightwas hoveringthere,waitingforme,andwhenIcame  outit bobbedalongabitandIfollowedit behindtheshedandthenit...well,  it went inside me.”   “Sorry?” said Harry, sure he had not heard correctly.   “It sort of floated toward me,” said Ron, illustrating the movement with his  free index finger, “right intomychest, and then—it just went straight through.   
 It was here,” he touched a point close to his heart. “I could feel it, it was hot.  And onceitwas insidemeIknewwhereI was supposedtodo,Iknewitwould  takeme whereIneededtogo.SoIDisapparatedand cameoutonthesideofa  hill. Therewas snow everywhere.... ”   “We were there,” said Harry. “We spend two nights there, and the second  night I kept thinking I could hear someone moving around in the dark and  calling out!”   “Yeah, well, that would’ve been me,” said Ron. “Your protective spells work,  anyway, becauseIcouldn’t see you andIcouldn’t hear you.Iwas sure you were  around, though,sointheendIgotinmy sleepingbagandwaitedfor oneof  you to appear. I thought you’d have to show yourselves when you packed up  the tent.”   “No, actually, said Hermione. “We’ve been Disapparating under the Invisibility  Cloak as an extra precaution. And we left really early, because as Harry  says, we’dheard somebody blundering around.”   “Well,I stayed on that hill all day,” said Ron. “I kept hoping you’dappear.  But whenit startedtoget darkI knewI musthave missed you,soI clicked  the Deluminator again, the blue light came out and went inside me, and I  Disapparated and arrived herein these woods.Istill couldn’t see you, soIjust  hadtohopeoneofyouwouldshow yourselvesinthe end—andHarrydid.Well,  Isaw the doe first, obviously.”   “You saw the what?” said Hermione sharply.   They explained what had happened, and as the story of the silver doe nad  the sword in the pool unfolded, Hermione frowned from one to the other of  them, concentrating so hard she forgot to keep her limbs locked together.   “Butit musthave beenaPatronus!” she said. “Couldn’t you see whowas  casting it? Didn’t you see anyone? And it led you to the sword! Ican’t believe  this! Then what happened?”   Ron explainedhowhehadwatchedHarryjumpintothepoolandhadwaited  for him to resurface; how he had realized that sometihng was wrong, dived in,  and saved Harry, then returned for the sword. He got as far as the opening of   
 CHAPTER  19.  THE  SILVER  DOE    the locket, then hesitated, and Harry cut in.   “—and Ron stabbed it with the sword.”   “And ...it went?Just like that?” she whispered.   “Well, it—screamed,” said Harry with half a glance at Ron. “Here.”   He threw the locket into her lap; gingerly she picked it up and examined its  punctured windows.   Deciding that it ws at last safe to do so, Harry removed the Shield Charm  with a wave of Hermione’s wand and turned to Ron.   “Did you just sayyou got awayfrom the Snatchers with a spare wand?”   “What?” said Ron, who had beenwatchingHermione examining the locket.  “Oh—oh yeah.”   He tugged open a buckle on his rucksackand pulled a short, dark wand out  ofitspocket. “Here.Ifiguredit’salwayshandytohaveabackup.”   “You were right,” said Harry, holding out his hand. “Mine’s broken.”   “You’re kidding?” Ron said, but at that moment Hermione got to her feet,  and he looked apprehensive again.   Hermione put the vanquished Horcrux into the beaded bag, then climbed  backinto her bed and settled down without another word.   Ron passed Harry the new wand.   “About the best you could hope four,Ithink,” murmured Harry.   “Yeah,” said Ron. “Could’ve been worse. Remember those birds she set on  me?”   “I still haven’t ruled it out,” came Hermione’s muffled voice from beneath  her blankets, but Harry saw Ron smiling slightly as he pulled his maroon pajamas  out of his rucksack.   
 Chapter  20    Xenophilius  Lovegood    H H arry had not expected Hermione’s anger to abate overnight, and  was therefore unsurprised that she communicated mainlybydirty  looks and pointed silences the next morning. Ron responded by  maintaining an unnaturally somber demeanor in her presence as an outward  sign of continuing remorse. In fact, when all three of them were together Harry  felt like the only non-mourner at a poorly attended funeral. During those few  moments he spent alone with Harry, however (collecting water and searching  the undergrowth for mushrooms), Ron became shamelessly cheery.   “Someone helped us.” he kept saying. “Someone sent that doe. Someone’s  on our side. One Horcrux down, mate!”   Bolstered by the destruction of the locket, they set to debating the possible  locations of the other Horcruxes, and even though they haddiscussed the  matter so often before, Harry felt optimistic, certain that more breakthroughs  would succeed the first. Hermione’s sulkiness could not mar his buoyant spirits;  The sudden upswing in their fortunes, they appearance of the mysterious  doe,the recovery of Gryffindor’ssword, and above all, Ron’sreturn, made Harry  so happy that it was quite difficult to maintain a straight face.   Late in the afternoon he and Ron escaped Hermione’sbaleful presence again,  and under the pretense of scouting the bare hedges for nonexistent blackber   335   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    ries, they continued their ongoing exchange of news. Harry had finally managed  to tell Ron the whole story of his and Hermione’s various wanderings,  right up to the full story of what had happened at Godric’s Hollow; Ron was  now filling Harry in on everything he had discovered about the widerWizarding  world during his weeks away.   “...and how did you find out about theTaboo?” he asked Harry after explaining  the many desperate attempts of Muggle-borns to evade the Ministry.   “The what?”   “You and Hermionehave stopped sayingYou-Know-Who’s name!”   “Oh, yeah.Well, it’s justa bad habit we’ve slipped into,” said Harry. “ButI  haven’tgota problem callinghimV—”   “NO!” roared Ron, causing Harry to jump into the hedge and Hermione  (nose buried in a boot at the tent entrance) to scowl over at them. “Sorry.”  said Ron, wrenching Harry back out of hte brambles, “but the name’s been  jinxed. Harry, that’s how they trackpeople! Using his name breaks protective  enchantments,it causes some kind of magical disturbance—it’show they found  usinTotenham Court Road!”   “Because we used his name?”   “Exactly! You’ve got to give htem credit, it makes sense. It was only people  who were serious about standing up to him like Dumbledore, who ever dared  useit. Now they’veputaTabooonit, anyonewhosaysitis trackable—quickand- easy wayto find they Order members! They nearly got Kingsley—”   “You’re kidding?”   “Yeah, a bunch of Death Eaters cornered him, Bill said, but he fought his  wayout. He’s on the run now, just like us.” Ron scratched his chin thoughfully  withtheendofhiswand.“Youdon’treckon Kingsleycouldhavesentthatdoe?”   “HisPatronusisalynx,wesawitatthe wedding, remember?”   “Oh yeah... ”   They moved farther along the hedge, awayfrom the tent and Hermione.   “Harry...you don’t reckonit could’ve been Dumbledore?”   “Dumbledore what?”   
 Ron lookedalittle embarrassed,but saidinalow voice, “Dumbledore...the  doe? Imean,” Ron was watching Harry out of the corners of his eyes, “he had  the real sword last, didn’t he?”   Harry did not laugh at Ron, because he understood too well the longing behind  the question. The idea that Dumbledore had managed to come back to  them, that he was watching over them, would have been inexpressibly comforting.  He shook his head.   “Dumbledore’s dead,” he said. “I saw it happen,I saw the body. He’s definitely  gone. Anyway, hisPatronuswasa phoenix, nota doe.”   “Patronuses can change, though, can’t they?” said Ron. “Tonks’s changed,  didn’t it?”   “Yeah, but if Dumbledore was alive, why wouldn’t he show himself? Why  wouldn’t he just hand us the sword?”   “Search me,” said Ron. “Same reason he didn’t give it to you while he was  alive? Same reason he left you an old Snitch and Hermione a book of kids’  stories?”   “Whichis what?” asked Harry,turning to look Ron full in the face,desperate  for the answer.   ‘I dunno,” said Ron. “Sometimes I’ve thought, when I’ve been a bit hacked  off, he was having a laugh or—or he just wanted to make it more difficult. But  Idon’t think so, not anymore. He knew what he was doing when he gave me  the Deluminator, didn’t he? He—well,” Ron’s ears turned bright red and he  became engrossed in a tuft of grass at his feet, whichhe prodded with his toe,  “he must’ve known I’d run out on you.”   “No,” Harry corrected him. “He must’ve know you’d always want to come  back.”   Ron looked grateful,but stillawkward.Partlytochangethe subject,Harry  said, “Speaking of Dumbledore, have you heard what Skeeter wrote about  him?”   “Ohyeah,”saidRonatonce. “peoplearetalkingaboutitquitealot. ’Course,  if things were different, it’dbe huge news. Dumbledore being pals with Grindel   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    wald, but now it’s just something to laugh about for people who didn’t like  Dumbledore, and a bit of a slap in the face for everyone who though he was  such agood bloke.Idon’tknowthatit’ssuch abigdeal, though.Hewasreally  young when they—”   “Our age,” said Harry, just as he had retorted to Hermione, and something  in his face seemed to decide Ron against persuing the subject.   A large spider sat in the middle of a frosted web in the brambles. Harry  took aim at it with the wand Ron had given him the previous night, which  Hermione had since condescended to examine, and had decided was made of  blackthorn.   “Engorgio.”   The spider game a little shiver, bouncing slightly in the web. Harry tried  again. This time the spider grew slightly larger.   “Stop that,” said Ron sharply. “I’m sorry I said Dumbledore was young,  okay?”   Harry had forgotten Ron’s hatred of spiders.   “Sorry—Reducio.”   The spider did not shrink. Harry looked down at the blackthorn wand. Every  minor spell he had cast with it so far tha day had seemed less powerful  than those he had produced with his phoenix wand. The new one felt intrusively  unfamiliar, like having sombody else’s hand sown to the end of his arm.   “You just need to practice,” said Hermione,who had approached them noiselessly  from behind and had stood watching anxiously as Harry tried to enlarge  and reduce the spider. “It’s all a matter of confidence, Harry.”   He knew why she wanted to be right: She still felt guilty about breaking  his wand. He bit backthe retort that sprang to his lips, that she could take the  blackthorn wand if she thought it made no difference, and he would have hers  instead. Keen for them all to be friends again, however, he agreed; but when  Ron gave Hermione a tentative smile, she stalked off and vanished behind her  book once more.   All three of them returned to the tent when darkness fell, and Harry took   
 first watch. Sitting in the entrance, he tried to make the blackthorn wand  levitate small stones at his feet; but his magic still seemed clumsier and less  powerful than it had done before. Hermione was lying on her bunk reading,  while Ron, after many nervous glances up at her, had taken a small wooden  wireless out of his rucksackand started to try and tune it.   “There’sthisone program,”hetoldHarryinalowvoice,“thattellsthenews  like it really is. All the others are onYou-Know-Who’s side and are following  the Ministryline,butthisone...youwaittillyouhearit,it’sgreat.Onlythey  can’t do it every night, they have to keep changing locations in case they’re  raided,andyouneeda passwordto tunein.... Troubleis,I missedthelsat  one.... ”   He drummed lightly on top of the radio with his wand, muttering random  words under his breath. He threw Hermione many covert glances, plainly fearing  an angry outburst, but for all the notice she took of him he might not have  been there.For ten minutes or so Ron tapped and muttered. Hermione turned  the pages of her book, and Harry continued to practice with the blackthorn  wand.   Finally Hermione climbed down from her bunk. Ron ceased his tapping at  once.   “If it’s annoying you, I’ll stop!” he told Hermione nervously.   Hermione did not deign to respond, but approached Harry.   “We need to talk,” she said.   He looked at the book still clutched in her hand. It was The Life and Lies of  Albus Dumbledore.   “What?” he said apprehensively. It flew through his mind that there was a  chapter on him in there; he was not sure he felt up to hearing Rita’s verison of  his relationship with Dumbledore. Hermione’s answer, however, was completedly  unexpected.   “I want to go and see Xenophilius Lovegood.”   He stared at her.   “Sorry?”   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    “Xenophilius Lovegood, Luna’s father.I wanttogoandtalkto him!”   “Er—why?”   She tooka deep breath, as though bracing herself, and said, “It’s that mark,  the mark in Beedle the Bard. Look at this!”   She thrust The Life and Lies of Albus Dumbledoreunder Harry’s unwilling  eyesashesawaphotographofthe original letterthan Dumbledorehad written  Grindelwald, with Dumbledore’s familiar thin, slanting handwriting. He hated  seeing absolute proof that Dumbledore really had writen those words,that they  had not been Rita’s invention.   “The signature,” said Hermione. “Look at the signature, Harry!”   He obeyed. For a moment he had no idea what she was talking about,  but, looking more closely with the aid of his lit wang, he saw that Dumbledore  had replaced the A of Albus with a tiny version of the same triangular mark  inscribed upon TheTalesof Beedle the Bard.   “Er—what are you—?” said Ron tentatively, but Hermione quelled him with  a look and turned backto Harry.   “It keeps cropping up, doesn’t it?” she said. “I know Viktor said it was  Grindelwald’s mark, but it was definitely on that old grave in Godric’s Hollow,  and the dates on the headstone were long before Grindelwald came along! And  now this! Well, we can’t ask Dumbledore or Grindelwald what it means—I  don’t even know if Grindelwald’s stil alive—but we can ask Mr. Lovegood. he  was wearing the symbol at the wedding. I’m sure this is important, Harry!”   Harry did not answer immediately. He looked into her intense, eager face  and then out into the surrounding darkness, thinking. After a long pause he  said, “Hermione, we don’t need another Godric’s Hollow. We talked ourselves  into going there, and—”   “But it keeps appearing, Harry! Dumbledore’s left he TheTales of Beedle  the Bard, how do you know we’re not supposed to find out about the sign?”   “Here we go again!” Harry felt slightly exaperated. “We keep trying to  convince ourselves Dumbledore left us secret signs and clues—”   “The Deluminator turned out to be pretty useful,” piped up Ron. “I think   
 Hermione’sright,Ithinkweoughttogoandsee Lovegood.”   Harry threw him a dark look. He was quite sure that Ron’s support of  Hermione had little to do with a desire to know the meaning of the triangular  rune.   “It won’t be like Godric’s Hollow,” Ron added, “Lovegood’s on your side,  Harry, The Quibbler’s been for you all along, it keeps telling everyone they’ve  got to help you!”   “I’m sure this is important!” said Hermione earnestly.   “But don’t you think if it was, Dumbledore would have told me about it  before he died?”   “Maybe ...maybe it’s something you need to find out for yourself,” said  Hermione with a faint air of clutching at straws.   “Yea,” said Ron syncophantically, “that makes sense.”   “No, it doesn’t,” snapped Hermione, “butI still think we ought to talke to  Mr. Lovegood. A symbol that links Dumbledore, Grindelwald, and Godric’s  Hollow? Harry, I’m sure we ought to know about this!”   “I think we should vote on it,” said Ron. “Those in favor of going to see  Lovegood—”   His hand flew into the air before Hermione’s. Her lips quivered suspiciously  as she raised her own.   “Outvoted, Harry, sorry,” said Ron, clapping him on the back.   “Fine,” said Harry, half amused, half irritated. “Only, once we’ve seen Love- good, let’s try and look for some more Horcruxes, shall we? where do the Love- goods live, anyway? Do either of you know?”   “Yeah, they’re not far from my place,” said Ron.. “I dunno exactly where,  but Mum and Dad always point toward the hills whenever they mention the,.  Shouldn’t be hard to find.”   When Hermione had returned to her bunk, Harry lowered his voice.   “You only agreed to try and get backin her good books.”   “All’sfairinloveandwar,”saidRon brightly,“andthisisabitofboth. Cheer  up, it’s the Christmas holidays, Luna’ll be home!”   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    They had an excellent view of the village of Ottery St. Cachpole from the  breezyhillsidetowhichtheyDisapparated next morning.From theirhigh vantagepointthe  village lookedlikea collectionoftoy housesinthegreat slanting  shafts of sunlight stretching to earth in the breaks between clouds. They stood  for a minute or two looking toward the Burrow their hands shadowing their  eyes, but all they could make out were the high hedges and tree of the orchard,  whichafforded the crooked little house protection from Muggle eyes.   “It’s weird, being this near, but not going to visit,” said Ron.   “Well, it’s not like you haven’t just seen them. You were there for Christmas,”  said Hermione coldly.   “I wasn’t at the Burrow!” said Ron with and incredulous laugh. “Do you  think I was going to go back there and tell them all I’d walked out on you?  Yeah, andFred and George woud’ve been great about it. And ginny, she’dhave  been really understanding.”   “VBut where have you been, then?” asked Hermione, surprised.   “Bill and Fleur’s new place. Shell Cottage. Bill’s always been decent to  me. He—he wasn’t impressed when he heard what I’d done, but he didn’t go  on about it. He knewI was really sorry. Noneof the restof the family knew  I was there. Bill told Mum he and Fleur weren’t going home for Christmas  becausetheywantedtospenditalonge.Youknow,first holidayafterthey were  married.Idon’t think Fleur minded.You know how muchshe hates Celestina  Warbeck.”   Ron turned his back on the Burrow.   “Let’s try up here,” he said, leading the way over the top of the hill.   They walked for a few hours, Harry, at Hermione’s insistence, hidden beneath  the Invisibility Cloak. The cluster of low hills appeared to be uninhabited  apart from one small cotttage, whichseemed deserted.   “Do you think it’stheirs,and they’ve goneawayfor Christmas?” said Hermione,  peeringthorughthewindowataneatlittlekitchenwith geraniumsonthewindowsill.  Ron snorted.   “Listen, I’ve got a feeling you’dbe able to tell who lived there if you looked   
 through the Lovegood’s window. Let’s try the next lot of hills.   So the Disapparated a few miles farther north.   “Aha!” shouted Ron, as the wind whippped their hair and clothes. Ron  was pointing upward, toward the top of the hill on which they had appeared,  where a most strange-looking house rose vertically against the sky, a great  black cylinder with a ghostly moon hanging behind it in the afternoon sky.  “That’sgottobe Luna’s house,whoelse wouldliveinaplacelike that?It looks  like a giant rook!”   “It’s nothing like a bird,” said Hermione, frowning at the tower.   “I was talking about a chess rook,” said Ron. “Acastle to you.”   Ron’s legs were the longest and he reached the top of the hill first. When  Harry and Hermione caught up with him, panting and clutching stitches in  their sides, they foun dhim grinning broadly.   “It’s theirs,” said Ron. “Look.”   Three hand-painted signs had been tacked to a broken-down gate. The first  read,   THE QUIBBLER, EDITOR: X. LOVEGOOD   the second,   PICK YOUR OWN MISTLETOE   the third,   KEEP OFF THE DIRIGIBLE PLUMS   The gate creaked as they opened it. The zigzagging path leading to the front  door was overgrown with a variety of odd plants, including a bush covered in  the orange radishlike fruit Luna sometimes wore as earrings. Harry though  he recognized a Snargaluff and gave the wizened stump a wide berth. Two  aged crab apple trees, beat with the wind, stripped of leaves but still heavery  with berry-sized red fruits and bushy crowns of white-beaded mistletoe, stood  sentinel on either side of the front door. Alittle owl with a slightly flattened,  hawklike head peered down at them from one of the branches.   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    “You’dbetter take off the Invisibility Cloak, Harry,” said Hermione. “It’s you  Mr. Lovegood wants to help, not us.”   He did as she suggested, handing her the Cloak to stow in the beaded bag.  She the rapped three times on th ethick black door, which was studded with  iron nails and bore a knocker shaped like an eagle.   Barely ten seconds passed, then the door was flung open and there stood  Xenophilius Lovegood, barefoot and wearing what appeared to be a stained  nightshirt. His long white candyfloss hairwas dirty and unkempt. Xenophilius  had been positively dapper at Bill and Fleur’s wedding by comparision.   “What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want?” he cried in a high- pitched, querulous voice, looking first at Hermione, then at Ron, and finally at  Harry, upon whichhis mouth fell openina perfect comicalO.   “Hello, Mr. Lovegood,” said Harry, holding out his hand. “I’m Harry, Harry  Potter.”   Xenophilius did not take Harry’s hand, although the eye thatwas not pointing  inward at his nose slid straight to the scar on Harry’s forehead.   “Would it be okayif we came in?” asked Harry. “There’s sometihng we’dlike  to ask you.”   “I...I’m not sure that’s advisable,” whispered Xenophilius. He swallowed  and cast a quick look around the garden. “Rather a shock ...My word ...I  ...I’m afraidIdon’t really thinkIought to—”   “It won’t take long,” said Harry, slightly disappointed by this less than  warming welcome.   “I—oh, all right then. Come in, quickly. Quickly!”   they were barely over the threshold when Xenophilius slammed the door  shut behind then. They were standing in the most peculiar kitchen Harry had  ever seen. The room was perfectly circular, so that it felt like being inside a  giant pepper pot. Everything was curved to fit the walls—the stove, the sink,  and the cupboards—and all of it had been painted with flowers, insects, and  birds in bright primary colors. Harry though he recognized Luna’s style: The  effect in such an enclosed space, was slightly overwhelming.   
 In the middle of the floor, a wrought-iron spiral staircase led to the upper  levels. Therewasa great dealofclattering and banging coming from overhead:  Harry wondered what Luna could be doing.   “You’dbetter come up,” said Xenophilius, still looking extremely uncomfortable,  and he led the way.   The room above seemed to be a combination of living room and workplace,  and as such, was even more cluttered than the kitchen. Though muchsmaller  and entirely round, the room somewhat resembled the Room of Requirement  on the unforgettable occasion that it had transformed itself into a gigantic  labryinth comprised of centuries of hidden objects. There were piles upon piles  of books and papers on every surface. Delicately made models of creatures  Harry did not recognize, all flapping wings or snapping jaws, hung from the  ceiling.   Lunawas not there; The thing thatwas making sucharacketwasawooden  object covered in magically turning cogs and wheels. It looked like the bizarre  offspringofa workbenchandasetofold shelves,but aftera momentHarrydecideditwasanold  fashionedprintingpress,duetothefactthatitwaschurning  out Quibblers.   “Excuse me,” said Xenophilius, and he strode over to the machine, seized  a grubbly tablecloth from beneath an immense number of books and papers,  which all tumbled onto the floor, and threw it over the press, somewhat muffling  the loud bangs and clatters. He then faced Harry.   “Why have you come here?”   Before Harry could speak, however, Hermione lot out a small cry of shock.   “Mr. Lovegood—what’s that?”   She was pointing at an enormous, gray spiral horn, not unlike that of a  unicorn, whichhad been mounted on the wall, protruding severalfeet into the  room.   “It is the horm of a Crumple-Horned Snorkack,” said Xenophilius.   “No it isn’t!” said Hermione.   “Hermione,” muttered Harry, embarrassed, “now’s not the moment—”   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    “But Harry, it’s an Erumpent horn! It’sa ClassBTradeable Material and  it’s an extraordinarily dangerous thing to have in a house!”   “How d’you know it’s an Erumpent horn?” asked Ron, edgingawayfrom the  horn as fast as he could, given the extreme clutter of the room.   “There’s a description in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them! Mr.  Lovegood, you need to get rid of it straightaway, don’t you know it can explode  at the slightest touch?”   “The Crumple-Horned Snorkack,” said Xenophilius very clearly, a mullish  look upon his face, “is a shy and highly magical creature, and its horn—”   “Mr. Lovegood, I recognize the grooved markings around the base, that’s  an Erumpent horn and it’s incredibily dangerous—I don’t know where you got  it—”   “I bought it,” said Xenophilius dogmatically, “two weeks ago, from a delightful  young wizard who knew of my interest in the exquisite Snorkack. A  Christmas surprise for my Luna. Now,” he said, turning to Harry, “why exactly  have you come here,Mr.Potter?”   “We need some help,” said Harry, before Hermione could start again.   “Ah,” said Xenophilius. “Help. Hmm.”   His good eye moved again to Harry’s scar. He seems simultaneously terrified  and mesmerized.   “Yes.Thethisis...helpingHarryPotter...rather dangerous...”   “Aren’t you the one who keeps telling everyone it’s their first duty to help  Harry?” said Ron. “In that magazine of yours?”   Xenophilius glanced behind him at the concealed printing press, still banging  and clattering beneath the tablecloth.   “Er—yes,Ihave expressed that view. However—” “That’s for everyone else  to do, not you personally?” said Ron.   Xenophilius did not answer. He kept swallowing, his eyes darting between  the three of them. Harry had the impression that he was undergoing some  painful interal struggle.   “Where’s Luna?” asked Hermione, “Let’s see what she thinks.”   
 Xenophilius gulped. He seemed to be steeling himself. Finally he said in a  shaky voice difficult to hear over the noise of the printing press, “Luna is down  atthe stream, fishingforFreshwater Plimpies.She...shewillliketoseeyou.  I’llgoandcallherand then—very well.Ishalltrytohelpyou.”   He disappeared down the spiral staircase and they heard the front door  open and close. They looked at eachother.   “Cowardly old wart,” said Ron. “Luna’s got ton times his guts.”   “He’s probably worried about what’ll happen to them if the Death Eaters  find outI was here,” said Harry.   “Well,Iagree with Ron,” said Hermione. “Awful old hypocrite, telling everyoneelsetohelpyouandtryingto  wormoutofit himself.Andforheaven’ssake  keep awayfrom that horn.”   Harry crossed to the window of the far sid of the room. He could see a  stream, a thin, glittering rybbon lying far below them at the base of the hill.  They were very high up; a bird fluttered past the window as he stared in the  direction of the Burrow, now invisible beyond another line of hills. Ginny was  overthere somewhere.Theywereclosertoeachotherthantheyhadbeensince  Bill and Fleur’s wedding, but she could have no idea he was gazing toward her  now, thinking of her. He supposed he ought to be glad of it; anyone he came  into contact with was in danger. Xenophilius’s attitude proved that.   He turned awayfrom the windows and his gaze fell upon another peculiar  object standing upon the cluttered, curved sideboard: a stone bust of a beautiful  but austere-looking witchwearing a most bizarre-looking headdress. Two  object that resembled golden ear trumpets curved out form the sides. A tiny  pair of gliterring blue wings was stuckto a leather strap that ran over the top  of her head, while one of the orange radishes had been stuckto a second strap  around her forehead.   “Looking at this,” said Harry.   “Fetching,” said Ron. “Surprised he didn’t wear that to the wedding.”   They heard the front doorclose,andamoment later Xenophilius hadclimbed  backupthespiral staircaseintotheroom,histhinlegsnowencasedinWelling   
 CHAPTER  20.  XENOPHILIUS  LOVEGOOD    ton boots, bearing a trayof ill-assorted teacups and a steaming teapot.   “Ah, you have spotted my pet invention,” he said, shoving the tray into  Hermione’s arms and joining Harry at the statue’s side. “Modeled, fittingly  enough, upon the head of the beautiful Rowena Ravenclaw. ’Wit beyond measure  is a man’s greatest treasure!’”   He indicated the objects like ear trumpets.   “These are the Wrackspurt siphons—to remove all sources of distraction  from the thinker’s immediate area. Here,” he pointed out the tina wings, “a  billywig propeller, to induce an elevated frame of mind. Finally,” he pointed to  the orange radish. “the Dirgible Plum, so as th enhance the ability to accept  the extraordinary.”   Xenophilius strode back to the tea tray, which Hermione had managed to  balance precariously on one of the cluttered side tables.   “MayIofferyouallan infusionof Gurdyroots?” said Xenophilius.“Wemake  it ourselves.” As he started to pour out the drink, which was a deep purple as  beetroot juice, he added, “Luna is down beyond Bottom Bridge, she is most  excited that you are here. She ought not be too long, she has caught nearly  enough Plumpies to make soup for all of us. Do sit down and help yourselves  to sugar.   “Now,”he removedatotteringpileof papersfroman armchairandsatdown,  hisWellingtoned legs crossed, “how mayIhelp you,Mr.Potter?”   “Well,” said Harry, glancing at Hermione, who nodded encouragingly. “it’s  about that symbol you were wearing around you neckat Bill and Fleur’s wedding. Mr. Lovegood.We wondered whatit meant.”   Xenophilius raised his eyebrows.   “Are you referring to the sign of the Deathly Hallows?” “Are you referring to  the sign of the Deathly Hallows?” “Are you referring to the sign of the Deathly  Hallows?” “Are you referring to the sign of the Deathly Hallows?”   
 Chapter  21    The  Tale  of  the  Three  Brothers    H H arry turned to look at Ron and Hermione. Neither of them seemed  to have understood what Xenophilius had said either.  “The Deathly Hallows?”   “That’s right,” said Xenophilius. “You haven’t heard of them? I’m not surprised.  Very, very few wizards believe. Witness that knuckle-headed young  man at your brother’s wedding,” he nodded at Ron, “who attacked me for sporting  the symbolofa well-known Dark wizard! Suchignorance. Thereis nothing  Dark about the Hallows—at least, not in that crude sense. One simply uses the  symbol to reveal oneself to other believers,in the hope that they might help one  with the Quest.”   He stirred several lumps of sugar into his Gurdyroot infusion and drank  some.   “I’m sorry,” said Harry. “I still don’t really understand.”   “To be polite, he took a sip from his cup too, and almost gagged: The stuff  was quite disgusting, as though someone had liquidized bogey-flavored Every  Flavor beans.   “Well, you see,believers seek the Deathly Hallows,” said Xenophilius,smack   349   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    ing his lips in apparent appreciation of the Gurdyroot infusion.   “But what are the Deathly Hallows?” asked Hermione.   Xenophilius set aside his empty teacup.   “I assume that you are all familiar with the “Tale of the Three Brothers’?”   Harry said, “No,” but Ron and Hermione said, “Yes.” Xenophilius nodded  gravely.   “Well, well,Mr. Potter, the whole thing starts with ‘TheTaleof the Three  Brothers’...Ihavea copy somewhere....”   He glanced vaguely around the room, at the piles of parchment and books,  but Hermione said, “I’ve got a copy, Mr. Lovegood, I’ve got it right here.”   And she pulled out TheTalesof Beedle the Bardfrom the small, beaded bag.   “The original?” inquired Xenophilius sharply, and when she nodded, he  said, “Well then, why don’t you read it out loud? Muchthe best way to make  sure we all understand.”   “Er...all right,” said Hermione nervously. She opened the book, and Harry  saw that the symbol they were investigating headed one top of the page as she  gave a little cough, and began to read.   “‘There were once three brothers who were traveling along a lonely, winding  road at twilight—”’   “Midnight, our mum always told us,” said Ron, who had stretched out, arms  behind his head, to listen. Hermione shot him a look of annoyance.   “Sorry,Ijust think it’sa bit spookierif it’s midnight!” said Ron.   “Yeah, becausewereallyneedabitmorefearinourlives,”saidHarrybefore  he could stop himself. Xenophilius did not seem to be paying muchattention,  but was staring out of the window at the sky. “Go on, Hermione.”   “‘In time, the brothers reached a river too deep to wade through and too  dangerous to swim across. However, these brothers were learned in the magical  arts, and so they simplywaved their wands and made a bridge appear across  the treacherous water.They were halfway acrossit whentheyfound theirpath  blocked by a hooded figure.   “‘And Death spoke to them—”’   
 “Sorry,” interjected Harry, “but Death spoke to them?”   “It’s a fairy tale, Harry!”   “Right, sorry. Go on.”   “‘And Death spoke to them. He was angry that he had been cheated out of  three new victims, for travelers usually drowned in the river. But Death was  cunning. He pretended to congratulate the three brothers upon their magic, and  saidthateachhad earnedaprizeforhavingbeen cleverenoughto evadehim.   “‘So the oldest brother, who wasa combative man, askedfora wand more  powerful than any in existence: a wand that must always win duels for its  owner, a wand worthy of a wizard who had conquered Death! So Death crossed  to an elder tree on the banks of the river, fashioned a wand from a branchthat  hung there, and gave it to the older brother.   “‘Then the second brother,who was an arrogant man, decided that he wanted  to humiliate Death still further, and askedfor the power to recall others from  Death. So Death picked up a stone from the riverbank and gave it to the second  brother, and told him that the stone would have the power to bring back the  dead.   “‘And then Deathasked the third and youngest brother what he would like.  The youngest brother was the humblest and also the wisest of the brothers, and  he did not trust Death. So he asked for something that would enable him to  go forth from that place without being followed by Death. And Death, most  unwillingly, handed over his own Cloak of Invisibility.”’   “Death’s got an Invisibility Cloak?” Harry interrupted again.   “So he can sneak up on people,” said Ron. “Sometimes he gets bored of  running at them, flapping his arms and shrieking ... sorry Hermione.”   “‘Then Death stood aside and allowed thee three brothers to continue on their  way, and they did so, talking with wonder of the adventure they ahd had, and  admiring Death’s gifts.   “‘In due course the brothers separated, eachfor his own destination.   “‘The first brother traveled on for a week or more, and reaching a distant  village,soughtoutafellowwizardwithwhomhehadaquarrel. Naturally,with   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    the ElderWand as his weapon, he could not fail to win the duel thatfollowed.  Leaving his enemy dead upon the floor, the oldest brother proceeded to an inn,  where he boasted loudly of the powerful wand he had snatched from Death  himself, and of how it made him invincible.   “‘That very night, another wizard crept upon the older brother as he lay wine- sodden, upon his bed.The thief took the wand and,for good measure, slit the  oldest brother’s throat.   “‘And so Death took the first brotherfor his own.   “‘Meanwhile, the second brother journeyed to his own home, where he lived  alone. Here he took out the stone that had the power to recall the dead, and he  turnedit thriceihis hand.Tohis amazementandhis delight,the figureofthe  girl he had once hoped to marry, before her untimelydeath, appeared at once  before him.   “‘Yet she was sad and cold, separated from him as by a veil. Though she  had returned to the mortal world, she did not trulybelong there and suffered.  Finallythe second brother, driven mad with hopeless longing, killed himself so  as trulyto join her.   “‘And so Death took the second brotherfor his own.   “‘But though Death searched for the third brother for many years, he was  never able to find him. It was only when he attained a great age that the  youngest brother finallytook off the Cloak of Invisibility and gave it to his son.  And then he greeted Death as an old friend, and went with him gladly, and,  equals, they departed this life.”’   Hermione closed the book. It was a moment or two before Xenophilius  seemed to realize that she had stopped reading, then he withdrew his gaze  from the window and said, “Well, there you are.”   “Sorry?” said Hermione, sounding confused.   “Those are the Deathly Hallows,” said Xenophilius.   He picked up a quill from a packed table at his elbow, and pulled a torn  piece of parchment from between more books.   “The ElderWand,” hesaid,andhedrewa straight verticallineuponthe   
 353   parchment. “The resurrection Stone,” he said, and he added a circle on top  of the line. “The Cloak of Invisibility,” he finished, enclosing both the line and  circleina triangle,to makethe symbol thatso intrigued Hermione.“Together,”  he said, “the Deathly Hallows.”   “But there’s no mention of the words ‘Deathly Hallows‘ in the story,” said  Hermione.   “Well, of course not,” said Xenophilius, maddeningly smug. “That is a children’s  tale, told to amuse rather than to instruct. Those of us who understand  these matters, however, recognize that the ancient story refers to three objects,  or Hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor master of Death.”   There was a short silence in whichXenophilius glanced out of the window.  Already the sun was low int he sky.   “Luna ought to have enough Plimpies soon,” he said quietly.   “When you say‘mast of Death’—” said Ron.   “Master,” said Xenophilius, waving an airy hand. “Conqueror. Vanquisher.  Whichever term you prefer.”   “Butthen...doyou mean ... ” said Hermioneslowly,andHarry couldtell  that she was trying to keep any trace of skepticism out of her voice, “that you  believe these objects—these Hallows—actually exist?”   Xenophilius raised his eyebrows again.   “Well, of course.”   “But,” said Hermione, and Harry could hear her restraint starting to crack,  “Mr. Lovegood, how can you possibly believe—?”   “Luna has told me all about you, young lady,” said Xenophilius. “You are,I  gather, no unintelligent, but painfully limited. Narrow, Close-minded.”   “Perhaps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione,” said Ron, nodding toward  the ludicrous headdress. His voice shockwith the strain of not laughing.   “Mr. Lovegood,” Hermione began again, “We all know that there are such  things as Invisibility Cloaks. They are rare, but they exist. But—”   “Ah, but the Third Hallows is true Cloak of Invisibility, Miss Granger! I  mean to say, it is not a traveling cloak imbued with a Disillusionment Charm,   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    or carrying a Bedazzling Hex or else woven from Demiguise hair, which will  hide one initially but fade with the years untilit turns opaque.We are talking  aboutacloak that really and truly renders the wearer completely invisible,and  endures eternally, giving constant and impenetrable concealment, no matter  what spells are cast at it. How many cloaks have you ever seen like that, Miss  Granger?”   Hermione opened her mouth to answer, then closed it again, looking more  confused than ever. She, Harry, and Ron glanced at one another, and Harry  knew that they were all thinking the same thing. It so happened that a cloak  exactly like the one Xenophilius had just described was in the room with them  at that very moment.   “Exactly,” said Xenophilius, as if he had defeated them allin reasoned argument.  “None of you have ever seen such a thing. The possessor would be  immeasurably rich, would he not?”   He glanced out of the window again. The sky was now tinged with the  faintest trace of pink.   “All right,” said Hermione, disconcerted. “Say the cloak existed ... what  about the stone, Mr. Lovegood? The thing you call the Resurrection Stone?”   “What of it?”   “Well, how can that be real?”   “Prove that it is not,” said Xenophilius.   Hermione looked outraged.   “But that’s—I’m sorry, but that’s completely ridiculous! How canI possibly  prove it doesn’t exist? Do you expect me to get hold of—of all the pebbles in the  world and test them? Imean, you could claim that anything’s real if the only  basis for believing in it is that nobody’s proved it doesn’t exist!”   “Yes, you could,” said Xenophilius. “I am glad to see that you are opening  your mind a little.”   “So the ElderWand,” said Harry quickly, before Hermione could retort, “you  think that exists too?”   “Oh, well, in that case there is endless evidence,” said Xenophilius. “The   
 ElderWandis the Hallo thats most easily traced, becauseof thewayin which   it passes from hand to hand.”   “Whichis what?” asked Harry.   “Whichis that the possessor of the wand must capture it from its previous  owner, if he is to be truly a master of it,” said Xenophilius. “Surely you have  heard of the waythe wad came to Egbert the Egregious, after his slaughter of  Emeric the Evil? Of how Godelot died in his own cellar after his son, Hereward,  took the wand from him? Of the dreadful Loxias, who took the wand from  Barnabas Deverill, whom he had killed? The bloody trail of the ElderWand is  splattered across the pagesofWizarding history.”   Harry glanced at Hermione. She was frowning at Xenophilius, but she did  not contradict him.   “So wheredo you think the ElderWandis now?” asked Ron.   “Alas, who knows?” said Xenophilius, as he gazed out of the window. “Who  knows where the ElderWand lies hidden? The trail goes cold with Arcus and  Livius. Who can saywhichof them really defeated Loxias, and whichtook the  wand? And who can saywho mayhave defeated them? History, alas, does not  tell us.”   Therewasa pause.Finally, Hermione asked stiffly, “Mr. Lovegood, does the  Peverell family have anything to do with the Deathly Hallows?”   Xenophilius looked taken aback as something shifted in Harry’s memory,  buthe couldnot locateit.Peverell...hehad heardthat name before....   “But have you been misleading me, young woman!” said Xenophilius, now  sitting up muchstraighter in his chair and goggling at Hermione. “I thought  you were new to the Hallows Quest! Many of us Questers believe that the  Peverells have everything—everything!—to do with the Hallows!”   “@Who are thePeverellls?” asked Ron.   “That was the name on the grave with the mark on it, in Godric’s Hollow,“  said Hermione, stillwatching Xenophilius. “IgnorusPeverell.”   “Exactly!” said Xenophilius, his forefinger raised pedantically. “The sign of  the Deathly Hallows on Ignotus’s grave is conclusive proof!”   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    “Of what?” asked Ron.   “Why, that the three brothers in the story were actually the threePeverell  brothers, Antioch, Cadmus, and Ignotus! That they were the original owners  of the Hallows!”   With another glance at the window he got to his feet, picked up the tray,  and headed for the spiral staircase.   “You will stayfor dinner?” he called, as he vanished downstairs again. “Everybody  always requests our recipe forFreshwater Plimpy soup.”   “Probably to show the Poisoning Department at St. Mungo’s,” said Ron  under his breath.   Harrywaiteduntiltheycouldhear Xenophiliusmovingaboutinthekitchen  downstairs before speaking.   “What do you think?” he asked Hermione.   “Oh, Harry,” she said wearily, “it’s a pile of utter rubbish. This can’t be the  what the sign really means. This must be his weird take on it. What a waste  of time.”   “I s’pose this is the man who brought us Crumple-Horned Snorkacks,” said  Ron.   “You don’t believe it either?” Harry asked him.   “Nah, that story’sjust one of those things you tell kids to teachthem lessons,  isn’t it? ‘Don’t go looking for trouble, don’t pick up fights, don’t go messing  around with stuff that’s best left alone! Just keep your headdown, mind your  own business, and you’ll be okay.’ Come to think of it,” Ron added, “maybe that  story’s why elder wands are supposed to be unlucky.”   “What are you talking about?”   “One of those superstitions, isn’t it? ‘May-born witches will marry Muggles.’  ’Jinx by twilight, undone by midnight.’ ‘Wand of elder, never prosper.’ You  must’ve heard them. My mum’s full of them.”   “Harry andI were raisedby Muggles,” Hermione reminded him. “We were  taught different superstitions.” She sighed deeply as a rather pungent smell  drifted up from the kitchen. The one good thing about her exasperation with   
 Xenophilius was that it seemed to make her forget that she was annoyed with  Ron. “I think you’re right,” she told him. “It’s just a morality tale, it’s obvious  whichgift is best, which one you’d choose—”   The three of them spoke at the same time; Hermione said, “the Cloak,” Ron  said, “the wand,” and Harry said, “the stone.”   They looked at eachother, half surprised, half amused.   “You’re supposed to saythe Cloak,” Ron told Hermione, “but you wouldn’t  needtobe invisibleifyouhadthewand. An unbeatable wand, Hermione, come  on!”   “We’ve already got an Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry.   “And it’s helped us rather a lot, in case you hadn’t noticed!” said Hermione.  “Whereas the wand would be bound to attract trouble—”   “Only if you shouted about it,” argued Ron. “Only if you were prat enough  to go dancing around, waving it over your head, and singing, ‘I’ve got an unbeatable  wand, come and have a go if you think you’re good enough.’ As you as  you kept your trap shut—”   “Yes, but could you keep your trap shut?” said Hermione, looking skeptical.  “You know, the only true thing he said to us was that there have been stories  about extra-powerful wands for hundreds of years.”   “There have?” asked Harry.   Hermione looked exasperated: The expression was so endearingly familiar  that Harry and Ron grinned at eachother.   “The Deathstick, theWand of Destiny, they crop up under different names  through the centuries, usually in the possession of some Dark wizard who’s  boasting about them. Professor Binns mentioned some of them, but—oh, it’s  all nonsense. Wands are only as powerful as the wizards who use them. Some  wizards just like to boast that theirs are bigger and better than other people’s.”   “But how do you know,” said Harry, “that those wands—the Deathstickand  theWandof Destiny—aren’tthe samewand, surfacing overthe centuries under  different names?”   “What, and they’re all really the ElderWand, madeby Death?” said Ron.   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    Harry laughed: The strange idea that had occurred to him was, after all,  ridiculous. His wand, he reminded himself, had been of holly, not elder, and it  hadbeenmadeby Ollivander, whateverithaddonethatnightVoldemorthad  pursued him across the skies. And if it had been unbeatable, how could it have  been broken?   “So why would you take the stone?” Ron asked him.   “Well,ifyoucouldbringpeopleback,wecouldhaveSirius...Mad-Eye... Dumbledore...my  parents....”   “But according to Beedle the Bard, they wouldn’t want to come back, would  they?” said Harry,thinking about the tale they had just heard. “I don’t suppose  there have been loads of other stories about a stone that can raise the dead,  have there?” he asked Hermione.   “No,” she replied sadly. “I don’t think anyone except Mr. Lovegood could kit  themselves that’s possible. Beedle probably took the idea from the Sorceror’s  Stone; you know, instead of a stone to make you immortal, a stone to reverse  death.”   The smell from the kitchen was getting stronger: It was something like  burning underpants. Harry wondered whether it would be possible to eat  enough of whatever Xenophilius was cooking to spare his feelings.   “What about the Cloak, though?” said Ron slowly. “Don’t you realize he’s  right? I’ve got so used to Harry’s Cloak and how good it is,I never stopped to  think. I’ve never heard of one like Harry’s. It’s infallible. We’ve never been  spotted under it—”   “Of course not—we’re invisible when we’re under it, Ron!”   “But all the stuff he said about the other cloaks, and they’re not exactly ten  a Knut, you know, is true! It’s never occurred to me before, but I’ve heard stuff  aboutcharms wearingoffcloakswhentheygetold,orthembeingrippedapart  by spells so they’ve got holes in them. Harry’s was owned by his dad, so it’s not  exactly new,isit,butit’sjust...perfect!”   “Yes, all right, but Ron, the stone... ”   As they argued in whispered, Harry moved around the room, only half lis   
 tening. Reaching the spiral stair, he raised his eyes absently to the next level  and was distracted at once. His own face was looking back at him from the  ceiling of the room above.   After a moment’s bewilderment, he realized that it was not a mirror, but a  painting. Curious, he began to climb the stairs.   “Harry, what are you doing?Idon’t think you should look around when he’s  not here!”   But Harry had already reached the next level.   Luna had decorated her bedroom ceiling with five beautifully painted faces:  Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville. They were not moving as the portraits  at Hogwarts moved, but there was a certain magic about them all the  same: Harry thought they breathed. What appeared to be fine golden chains  wove around the pictures, linking them together, but after examining them for  aminute or so,Harry realized that thechains were actually one word, repeated  a thousand times in golden ink: friends . . . friends . . . friends. . .   Harry felt a great rush of affection for Luna. He looked around the room.  There was a large photograph beside the bed, of a young Luna and a woman  who looked very like her. They were hugging. Luna looked rather better- groomed in this picture than Harry had ever seen her in life. The picture was  dusty. This struckHarry as slightly odd. He stared around.   Somethingwas wrong. The pale blue carpetwas also thickwith dust. There  were no clothes in the wardrobe, whose doors stood ajar. The bed had a cold,  unfriendly look, as though it had not been slept in for weeks. Asingle cobweb  stretched over the nearest window, across a bloodred sky.   “What’s wrong?” Hermione asked as Harry descended the staircase, but  before he could respond, Xenophilius reached the top of the stairs from the  kitchen, now holding a trayladen with bowls.   “Mr. Lovegood,” said Harry. “Where’s Luna?”   “Excuse me?”   “Where’s Luna?”   Xenophilius halted on the top step.   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    “I—I’ve already told you. She is down at Bortons Bridge, fishing for Plimpies.”    “So why have you only laid that trayfor four?”   Xenophilius tried to speak, but no sound came out. The only noise was the  continued chugging of the printing press, and a slight rattle from the tray as  Xenophilius’s hands shook.   “I don’t think Luna’s been here for weeks,” said Harry. “Her clothes are  gone, her bed hasn’t been slept in. Where is she? And why do you keep looking  out of the window?”   Xenophilius dropped the tray: The bowls bounced and smashed. Harry,Ron,  and Hermione drew theirwands. Xenophilius frowned, his hand about to enter  hispocket.Atthat momenttheprintingpressgaveahugebangand numerous  Quibblers came streaming across the floor from underneath the tablecloth, the  press fell silent at last.   Hermione stooped down and picked up one of the magazines, her wand still  pointing at Mr. Lovegood.   “Harry, look at this.”   He strode to her as quickly as he could through all the clutter. The front of  The Quibbler carried his own picture, emblazoned with the wordsUNDESIR- ABLE NUMBER ONE and captioned with the reward money.   “The Quibbler’sgoing for a new angle, then?” Harry asked coldly, his mind  working very fast. “Is that what you were doing when you went into the garden,  Mr. Lovegood? Sending an owl to the Ministry?”   Xenophilius licked his lips.   “They took my Luna,” he whispered. “Because of what I’ve been writing.  They took my Luna andI don’t know where she is, what they’ve done to her.  But they might give her backto me if I—if I—”   “Hand over Harry?” Hermione finished for him.   “No deal,” said Ron flatly. “Get out of the way, we’re leaving.”   Xenophilius looked ghastly, a centuryold,hislapsdrawnbackintoa dreadful  leer.   
 “They will be here at any moment. Imust save Luna. I cannot lose Luna.  You must not leave.”   He spread his armsin frontof the staircase, and Harry hada sudden vision  of his mother doing the same thing in front of his crib.   “Don’t make us hurt you,” Harry said. “Get out of the way, Mr. Lovegood.”   “HARRY!” Hermione screamed.   Figures on broomsticks were flying past the windows. As the three of them  looked awayfrom him, Xenophilius drew his wand. Harry realized their mistake  just in time: He launched himself sideways, shoving Ron and Hermione  out of harm’s way as Xenophilius’s Stunning Spell soared across the room and  hit the Erumpent horn.   There was a colossal explosion. The sound of it seemed to blow the room  apart: Fragments of wood and paper and rubble flew to all directions, along  with an impenetrable cloud of thickwhite dust. Harry flew through the door,  then crashed to the floor, unable to see as debris rained upon him, his arms  above his head. He heard Hermione’s scream, Ron’s yell, and a series of sickening  metallic thuds, whichtold him that Xenophilius had been blasted off his  feet and fallen backward down the spiral stairs.   Half burried in rubble,Harry tried to raise himself: He could barely breathe  or see for dust. Half o the ceiling had fallen in, and the end of Luna’s bed was  hangingthroughthehole.Thebustof RowenaRavenclawlaybesidehimwith  half its face missing, fragments of torn parchment were floating through the  air, and most of the printing press lay on its side, blocking the top of the staircase  to the kitchen. Then another whit shape moved close by, and Hermione,  coated in dust like a second statue, pressed her finger to her lips.   the door downstairs crashed open.   “Didn’tItell you therewas no need to hurry, Travers? saida rough voice.  “Didn’tItell you this nutterwas just raving as usual?”   There was a bang and a scream of pain from Xenophilius.   “No...no... upstairs...Potter!”   “I told you last week, Lovegood, we weren’t coming backfor anything less   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    than some solid information! Remember last week? When you wanted to swap  your daughter for that stupid bleeding headdress? And the week before”—  another bang, another squeal—“when you thought we’d give her back if you  offered us proof there are Crumple”—bang—“Headed”—bang—“Snorkacks?”   “No—no—Ibeg you!” sobbed Xenophilius. “It reallyisPotter! Really!”   “And now it turns out you only called us here to try and blow us up!” roared  the Death Eater, and there are a volley of bangs interspersed with squeals of  agony from Xenophilius.   “This place looks like it’s about to fall in, Selwyn,” said a cool second voice,  echoing up the mangled staircase. “The stairs are completely blocked. Could  trying clearing it? Might bring the place down.”   “You lying piece of filth,” shoutedthe wizard named Selwyn. “you’ve never  seenPotter in your life, have you? thought you’d lure us here to kill us, did  you? And you think you’ll get your girl backlike this?”   “I swear...I swear...Potter’s upstairs!”   “Homenum revelio,” said the voice at the foot of the stairs.   Harry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd sensation that something  was swooping low over him, immersing his body in its shadow.   “It’sPotter,Itellyou,it’sPotter!” sobbed Xenophilius. “Please...please...give  me Luna, just let mehave Luna....”   “You can have your little girl, Lovegood,” said Selwyn, “if you get up those  stairsand bringme down HarryPotter. butif thisisa plot,ifit’sa trick,if  you’ve got an accomplice waiting up there to ambush us, we’ll see if we can  spare a bit of your daughter for you to bury.”   Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and despair. There were scurryings and  scrapings: Xenophilius was trying to get though the debris on the stairs.   “Come on,” Harry whispered, “we’ve got to get out of here.”   He stated to dig himself out under cover of all the noise Xenophilius was  making on the staircase. Ronwas buried deepest: Harry and Hermioneclimbed,  as quietly as they could, over all the wreckage to where he lay, trying to prise  a heavy chest of drawers off his legs. While Xenophilius’s banging and scrap   
 ing drew nearer and nearer, Hermione managed to free Ron with the use of a  Hover Charm.   “All right,” breathed Hermione, as the broken printing press blocking the  top of the stairs began to tremble; Xenophilius was feet awayfrom them. She  was still white with dust. “Do you trust me, Harry?”   Harry nodded.   “Okay then,” Hermione whispered, “give me the Invisibility Cloak. Ron,  you’re going to put it on.”   “Me? But Harry—”   “Please, Ron! Harry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron, grab my shoulder.”   Harry held out his left hand. Ron vanished beneath the Cloak. The printing  pressblockingthestairswasvibrating: Xenophiliuswastryingtoshiftitusing  a Hover Charm. Harry did not know what Hermione was waiting for.   “Hold tight,” she whispered. “Hold tight...any second... ”   Xenophilius’s paper-white face appeared over the top of the sideboard.   “Obliviate!” cried Hermione, pointing her wand first into his face, and then  at the floor beneath them. “Deprimo!”   She had blasted a hole in the sitting room floor. They fell like boulders,  Harry still holding onto her hand for dear life; there was a scream from below,  and he glimpsed two men trying to get out of the way as vast quantities of  rubble and broken furniture rained all around them from the shattered ceiling.  Hermione twisted in midair and the thundering of the collapsing house rang  in Harry’s ears as she dragged him once more into darkness.   
 CHAPTER  21.  THE  TALE  OF  THE  THREE  BROTHERS    
 Chapter  22    The  Deathly  Hallows    H H arry fell, panting, onto grass and scrambled up at once. They  seemed to have landed in the corner of a field at dusk; Hermione  was already running in a circle around them, waving her wand.  “ProtegoTotalum... Salvio Hexia... ”   “That treacherous old bleeder.” Ron panted, emerging from beneath the  Invisibility Cloak and throwing it to Harry. “Hermione you’re a genius, a total  genius.Ican’t believe we got out of that.”   “Cave Inimicum...Didn’tI sayitwasan Erumpenthorn, didn’tItellhim?  And now his house has been blown apart!”   “Serves him right,” said Ron, examining his torn jeans and the cuts to his  legs, “What’dyou reckon they’ll do to him?”   “OhIhope they don’t kill him!” groaned Hermione, “That’s whyI wanted  theDeathEaterstogetaglimpseofHarrybeforeweleft,sotheyknew Xenophilius  hadn’t been lying!”   “Why hide me though?” asked Ron.   “You’re supposed to be in bed with spattergroit, Ron! They’ve kidnapped  Luna because her father supported Harry! What would happen to your family  if they knew you’re with him?”   “But what about your mum and dad?”   365   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    “They’re in Australia,” said Hermione, “They should be all right. They don’t  know anything.”   “You’re a genius,” Ron repeated, looking awed.   Yeah, you are, Hermione,” agreed Harry fervently. “I don’t know what we’d  do without you.”   She beamed, but became solemn at once.   “What about Luna?”   “Well, if they’re telling the truth and she’s still Alive—“ began Ron.   “Don’t saythat, don’t sayit!” squealed Hermione. “She must be alive, she  must!”   “Then she’ll be in Azkaban,Iexpect,” said Ron. “Whether she survives the  place, though... Loads don’t... ”   “She will,” said Harry. He could not bear to contemplate the alternative.  “She’s tough, Luna, much tougher than you’d think. She’s probably teaching  all the inmates about Wrackspurts and Nargles.”   “I hope you’re right,” said Hermione. She passed a hand over her eyes. “I’d  feel so sorry for Xenophilius if—“   “—if he hadn’t just tried to sell us to the Death Eaters, yeah,” said Ron.   They put up the tent and retreated inside it, where Ron made them tea. After  their narrow escape,thechilly,musty old place felt like home: safe,familiar,  and friendly.   “Oh, why did we go there?” groaned Hermione after a few minutes’ silence.  “Harry, you were right, it was Godric’s Hollow all over again, a complete waste  of time! The Deathly Hallows... such rubbish... although actually,” a sudden  thought seemed to have struckher, “he might have made it all up, mightn’t he?  He probably doesn’t believe in the Deathly Hallows at all, he just wanted to  keep us talking until the Death Eaters arrived!”   “I don’t think so,” said Ron. “It’sa damn sight harder making stuffup when  you’re under stress than you’d think. I found that out when the Snatchers  caught me. Itwas much easier pretending to be Stan, becauseI knewa bit  about him, than inventing a whole new person. Old Lovegood was under loads   
 of pressure, trying to make sure we stayed put. I reckon he told us the truth,  or what he thinks is the truth, just to keep us talking.”   “Well,Idon’t supposeit matters,” sighed Hermione. “Evenifhewas being  honest,I never heard such a lotof nonsensein allmy life.”   “Hang on, though,” said Ron. “The Chamber of Secrets was supposed to be  a myth, wasn’t it?”   “But the Deathly Hallows can’t exist, Ron!”   “You keep saying that, but one of them can,” said Ron. “Harry’s Invisibility  Cloak—“   “TheTaleofthe Three Brothers’isa story,” said Hermione firmly. “Astory  abouthowhumansarefrightenedofdeath.If survivingwasassimpleashiding  under the Invisibility Cloak, we’dhave everything we need already!”   “I don’t know. We could do with an unbeatable wand,” said Harry, turning  the blackthorn wand he so disliked over in his fingers.   “There’s no suchthing, Harry!”   “You said there have been loads of wands—the Deathstick and whatever  they were called—“   “All right, even if you want to kid yourself the Elder Wand’s real, what  about the Resurrection Stone?” Her fingers sketched quotation marks around  the name, and her tone dripped sarcasm. “No magic can raise the dead, and  that’s that!”   “When my wand connected with You-Know-Who’s, it made my mum and  dad appear...and Cedric... ”   “But they weren’t really back from the dead, were they?” said Hermione.  “Those kind of—of pale imitations aren’t the same as truly bringing someone  backto life.”   “But she, the girl in the tale, didn’t really come back, did she? The story  says that once people are dead, they belong with the dead. But the second  brother still got to see her and talk to her, didn’t he? He even lived with her for  a while...”   He saw concern and something less easily definable in Hermione’s expres   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    sion. Then, as she glanced at Ron, Harry realized that it was fear: He had  scared her with his talk of living with dead people.   “So that Peverell bloke who’s buried in Godric’s Hollow,” he said hastily,  trying to sound robustly sane, “you don’t know anything about him, then?”   “No,”she replied, looking relievedatthechangeof subject.“I lookedhimup  afterIsawthemarkonhisgrave;ifhe’dbeen anyone famousordone anything  important, I’m sure he’d be in one of our books. The only place I’ve managed  to find the name ’Peverell’ is Nature’s Nobility:AWizarding Genealogy. Iborrowed  it from Kreacher,” she explained as Ron raised his eyebrows. “It lists  the pure-blood families that are now extinct in the male line. Apparently the  Peverells were one of the earliest families to vanish.”   “Extinct in the male line?” repeated Ron.   “It means the name died out,” said Hermione, “centuries ago, in the case of  thePeverells. They could still have descendants, though, they’djust be called  something different.”   And then it came to Harry in one shining piece,the memory that had stirred  at the sound of the name “Peverell”: a filthy old man brandishing an ugly ring  in the face of a Ministry official, and he cried aloud, “Marvolo Gaunt!”   “Sorry said Ron and Hermione together.   “Marvolo Gaunt! You-Know-Who’s grandfather! In the Pensieve! With  Dumbledore! Marvolo Gaunt saidhewas descended from thePeverells!”   Ron and Hermione looked bewildered.   “The ring, the ring that became the Horcrux, Marvolo Gaunt said it had the  Peverell coatof armsonit!Isawhimwavingitinthe bloke fromthe Ministry’s  face, he nearly shoved it up his nose!”   “ThePeverell coatof arms?” said Hermione sharply. “Could you see whatit  looked like?”   “Not really,” said Harry, trying to remember. “There was nothing fancy on  there, as far asI could see; maybea few scratches. I only ever sawit really  close up after it had been cracked open.”   Harry saw Hermione’s comprehension in the sudden widening of her eyes.   
 Ron was looking from one to the other, astonished.   “Blimey...You reckonitwas this sign again? The signof the Hallows?   “WhynotsaidHarryexcitedly, “MarvoloGauntwasanignorantoldgitwho  lived like a pig, all he cared about was his ancestry. If that ring had been  passed down through the centuries, he might not have known what it really  was. There were no books in that house, and trust me, he wasn’t the type to  read fairy tales to his kids. He’dhave loved to think the scratches on the stone  were a coat of arms, because as far as he was concerned, having pure blood  made you practically royal.”   “Yes...andthat’sallvery interesting,”said Hermione cautiously,“butHarry,  if you’re thinking whatIthink you’re think—“   “Well, why not? Why not? said Harry, abandoning caution. “It was a stone,  wasn’t it?” He looked at Ron for support. “What if it was the Resurrection  Stone?”   Ron’s mouth fell open.   “Blimey—but would it still work if Dumbledore broke—?”   “Work?Work? Ron,it never worked! There’s no suchthing asa Resurrection  Stone!”   Hermione leapt to her feet, looking exasperated and angry. Harry you’re  trying to fit everything into the Hallows story—“   “Fit everything in?” he repeated. “Hermione, it fits of its own accord! I  know the sign of the Deathly Hallows was on that stone! Gaunt said he was  descended from thePeverells!”   “Aminute ago you told us you never saw the mark on the stone properly!”   “Where’dyou reckon the ring is now?” Ron asked Harry. “What did Dumbledore  do with it after he broke it open?”   “But Harry’simaginationwas racing ahead, far beyond Ron and Hermione’s...   Three objects, or Hallows, which, if united, will make the possessor master  of Death. . . Master. . . Conqueror. . .Vanquisher. . .The last enemy that shall be  destroyed is death. . . .   Andhesaw himself, possessorofthe Hallows, facingVoldemort,whoseHor   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    cruxes were no match... Neither can live while the other survives...Was thisthe  answer? Hallows versus Horcruxes? Was there a wayafter all, to ensure that  he was the one who triumphed? If he were the master of the Deathly Hallows,  would he be safe?   “Harry?”   But he scarcely heard Hermione: He had pulled out his Invisibility Cloak  and was running it through his fingers, the cloth supple as water, light as  air. He had never seen anything to equal it in his nearly seven years in the  Wizarding world. The Cloak was exactly what Xenophilius had described: A  cloak that reallyand trulyrenders the wearer completelyinvisible, and endures  eternally, giving constant and impenetrable concealment, no matter what spells  are castatit...   And then, with a gasp, he remembered—   “Dumbledore had my Cloak the night my parents died!”   His voice shook and he could feel the color in his face, but he did not care.   “My mum told Sirius that Dumbledore borrowed the Cloak! This is why!  He wanted to examine it, because he thought it was the third Hallow! Ignotus  Peverellis buriedin Godric’s Hollow...” Harrywaswalking blindly aroundthe  tent, feeling as though great new vistas of truth were opening all around him.  “He’s my ancestor. I’m descended from the third brother! It all makes sense!”   “He felt armed in certainty, in his belief in the Hallows, as if the mere idea  of possessing them was giving him protection, and he felt joyous as he turned  backto the other two.   “Harry,” said Hermione again, but he was busy undoing the poucharound  his neck, his fingers shaking hard.   “Read it,” he told her, pushing his mother’s letter into her hand. “Read it!  Dumbledore had the Cloak, Hermione! Why else would he want it? He didn’t  need a Cloak, he could perform a Disillusionment Charm so powerful that he  made himself completely invisible without one!”   Something fell to the floor and rolled, glittering, under a chair: He had  dislodged the Snitch when he pulled out the letter. He stooped to pick it up,   
 and then the newly tapped spring of fabulous discoveries threw him another   gift, and shockand wonder erupted inside him so that he shouted out.   “IT’S IN HERE! He left me the ring—it’s in the Snitch!”   “You—you reckon?”   He could not understand why Ron looked taken aback. It was so obvious,  socleartoHarry. Everythingfit, everything...HisCloakwasthethird Hallow,  and when he discovered how to open the Snitchhe would have the second, and  thenallhe neededtodowasfindthe first Hallow,the ElderWand,and then—   But it was as though a curtain fell on a lit stage: All his excitement, all his  hope and happiness were extinguished at a stroke, and he stood alone in the  darkness, and the glorious spell was broken.   “That’s what he’s after.”   The change in his voice made Ron and Hermione look even more scared.   “You-Know-Who’s after the ElderWand.”   He turned his back on their strained, incredulous faces. He knew it was  the truth. It all made sense,Voldemortwas not seekinga newwand;hewas  seeking an old wand, a very old wand indeed. Harry walked to the entrance of  the tent, forgetting about Ron and Hermione as he looked out into the night,  thinking...   Voldemort had been raised in a Muggle orphanage. Nobody could have told  him TheTales of Beedle the Bard when he was a child, any more than Harry  had heard them. Hardly any wizards believed in the Deathly Hallows. Was it  likely thatVoldemort knew about them?   Harry gazed into the darkness.... IfVoldemort had known about the Deathly  Hallows, surely he would have sought them, done anything to possess them:  three objects that made the possessor master of Death? If he had known about  the Deathly Hallows, he might not have needed Horcruxes in the first place.  Didn’t the simple fact that he had taken a Hallow, and turned it into a Horcrux,  demonstrate thathe did not know this last greatWizarding secret?   Which meant thatVoldemort sought the ElderWand without realizing its  full power, without understanding that itwas one of three.... for thewand   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    wasthe Hallowthatcouldnotbe hidden,whose existencewasbest known....   The bloody trail of the ElderWand is splattered across the pages ofWizarding  history. . .   Harry watched the cloudy sky, curves of smoke-grayand silver sliding over  the face of the white moon. He felt lightheaded with amazement at his discoveries.    He turned back into the tent. It was a shock to see Ron and Hermione  standing exactly where he had left them, Hermione still holding Lily’s letter,  Ron at her side looking slightly anxious. Didn’t they realize how far they had  traveled in the last few minutes?   “This is it?” Harry said, trying to bring them inside the glow of his own  astonished certainty, “This explains everything. The Deathly Hallows are real  and I’ve got one—maybe two—“   He held up the Snitch.   “—andYou-Know-Who’schasingthe third,buthe doesn’t realize...hejust  thinks it’s a powerful wand—“   “Harry,” said Hermione, moving across to him and handing him backLily’s  letter, “I’m sorry, butIthink you’ve got this wrong, all wrong.”   “But don’t you see? It all fits—“   “Not, it doesn’t,” she said. “It doesn’t. Harry, you’re just getting carried  away. Please,” she said as she started to speak, “please just answer me this: If  the Deathly Hallows really existed, and Dumbledore knew about them, knew  that the person who possessed all of them would be master of Death—Harry,  why wouldn’t he have told you? Why?”   He had his answer ready.   “But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out about them for yourself!  It’s a Quest!”   “ButI only said that to try and persuade you to come to the Lovegoods’!”  cried Hermione in exasperation. “I didn’t really believe it!”   Harry took no notice.   “Dumbledore usually let me find out stuff for myself. He let me try my   
 373   strength, take risks. This feels like the kind of thing he’ddo.”   “Harry,thisisn’tagame,thisisn’t practice!Thisistherealthing,andDumbledore  left you veryclear instructions:Find and destroy the Horcruxes! That  symbol doesn’t mean anything, forget the Deathly Hallows, we can’t afford to  get sidetracked—“   Harry was barely listening to her. He was turning the Snitch over and over  in his hands, half expecting it to break open,to reveal the Resurrection Stone,  to prove to Hermione that he was right, that the Deathly Hallows were real.   She appealed to Ron.   “You don’t believe in this, do you?”   Harry looked up, Ron hesitated.   “Idunno...Imean...bitsofitsortoffittogether,”saidRonawkwardly,“But  when you look at the whole thing... ” He tooka deep breath. “I think we’re  supposed to get rid of Horcruxes, Harry. That’s what Dumbledore told us to do.  Maybe...maybe we should forget about this Hallows business.”   “Thank you, Ron,” said Hermione. “I’ll take first watch.”   And she strode past Harry and sat down in the tent entrance bringing the  action to a fierce full stop.   But Harry hardly slept that night. The idea of the Deathly Hallows had  taken possession of him, and he could not rest while agitating thoughts whirled  through his mind: the wand, the stone, and the Cloak, if he could just possess  them all....   I open at the close.... But whatwas theclose? Why couldn’thehave the  stone now? If only he had the stone, he could ask Dumbledore these questions  in person...and Harry murmured wordstothe Snitchinthe darkness, trying  everything, evenParseltongue, but the golden ball would not open....   And thewand, the ElderWand, wherewas that hidden? WherewasVoldemort  searching now? Harry wished his scar would burn and show himVoldemort’s  thoughts, because for the first time ever, he andVoldemort were united  inwantingtheverysamething...Hermionewouldnotlikethatidea,of course....  Butthen,shedidnot believe... .Xenophiliushadbeenright,inaway... Limited,   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    Narrow, Close-minded. The truth was that she was scared of the idea of the  Deathly Hallows, especiallyof the Resurrection Stone...and Harry pressed his  mouth again to the Snitch, kissing it, nearly swallowing it, but the cold medal  did not yield....   It was nearly dawn when he remembered Luna, alone in a cell in Azkaban,  surrounded by dementors, and he suddenly felt ashamed of himself. He  had forgotten all about her in his feverish contemplation of the Hallows. If  only they could rescue her, but dementors in those numbers would be virtually  unassailable. Now he came to think about it, he had not tried casting a  Patronuswiththeblackthornwand....He musttrythatinthe morning...   If only therewasawayof gettinga betterwand...   And desire for the ElderWand, the Deathstick, unbeatable,invincible,swallowed  him once more....   They packed up the tent next morning and moved on through a dreary  shower of rain. The downpour pursued them to the coast, where they pitched  the tent that night, and persisted through the whole week, through sodden  landscapes that Harry found bleak and depressing. He could think only of the  Deathly Hallows. It was as though a flame had been lit inside him that nothing,  not Hermione’s flat disbelief nor Ron’s persistent doubts, couldextinguish.  And yet the fiercer the longing for the Hallows burned inside him, the less joyfulitmadehim. He blamedRonand Hermione:Their determined indifference  was as bad as the relentless rain for dampening his spirits, but neither could  erode his certainty, whichremained absolute. Harry’s belief in and longing for  the Hallows consumed him so much that he felt isolated from the other two  and their obsession with the Horcruxes.   “Obsession?” said Hermione in a low fierce voice, when Harry was careless  enough to use the word one evening, after Hermione had told him off for his  lackof interest in locating more Horcruxes. “We’re not the one with an obsession, Harry!We’rethe onestryingtodowhat Dumbledorewantedustodo!”   But he was impervious to the veiled criticism. Dumbledore had left the  sign of the Hallows for Hermione to decipher, and he had also, Harry remained   
 convinced of it, left the Resurrection Stone hidden in the golden Snitch. Neither  can live while the other survives. . . master of Death...Why didn’t Ron and  Hermione understand?   “‘The last enemy shall be destroyed is death,”’ Harry quoted calmly.   “I thoughtitwasYou-Know-Whowe were supposedtobe fighting?” Hermione  retorted, and Harry gave up on her.   Even the mystery of the silver doe, which the other two insisted on discussing,  seemed less important to Harry now, a vaguely interesting sideshow.  The only other thing that mattered to him was that his scar had begun to  prickle again, although he did all he could to hide this fact from the other  two. He sought solitude whenever it happened, but was disappointed by what  he saw. The visionshe andVoldemort were sharing hadchangedin quality;  they had become blurred, shifting as though they were moving in and out of  focus. Harry was just able to make out the indistinct features of an object that  looked likea skull, and something likea mountain thatwas more shadow than  substance. Used to images sharp as reality, Harry was disconcerted by the  change. Hewas worried that the connection between himself andVoldemort  had been damaged,a connection thathe both feared and, whateverhe had told  Hermione, prized. Somehow Harry connected these unsatisfying, vague images  with the destruction of his wand, as if it was the blackthorn wand’s fault  that he could no longer see intoVoldemort’s mind as well as before.   As the weeks crept on, Harry could not help but notice, even through his  new self-absorption,thatRon seemedtobetakingcharge.Perhaps becausehe  was determined to make up for having walked out on them, perhaps because  Harry’s descent into listlessness galvanized his dormant leadership qualities,  Ron was the one now encouraging and exhorting the other two into action.   “Three Horcruxes left,” he kept saying. “We need a plan of action, come on!  Wherehaven’t we looked? Let’sgo throughit again. The orphanage... ”   Diagon Alley, Hogwarts, the Riddle House, Borgin and Burkes, Albania,  every place that they knew Tom Riddle had ever lived or worked, visited or  murdered, Ron and Hermione raked over them again, Harry joining in only to   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    stop Hermione pestering him. He would have been happy to sit alone in silence,  trying to readVoldemort’s thoughts, to find out more about the ElderWand,  but Ron insisted on journeying to ever more unlikely places simply, Harry was  aware, to keep them moving.   “You never know,”was Ron’s constant refrain. “Upper FlagleyisaWizarding  village, he might’ve wanted to live there. Let’s go and have a poke around.”   These frequent forays intoWizarding territory brought them within occasional  sight of Snatchers.   “Some of them are supposed to be as bad as Death Eaters,” said Ron. “The  lot that got me were a bit pathetic, but Bill recons some of them are really  dangerous. They said on Potterwatch—“   “On what?” said Harry.   “Potterwatch, didn’tItellyou that’s whatitwas called? The programIkeep  trying to get on the radio, the only one that tells the truth about what’s going  on!Nearly allof the programs are followingYou-Know-Who’s line, all except  Potterwatch,Ireallywantyoutohearit,butit’stricky tuningin...”   Ronspenteveningaftereveningusinghiswandtobeatout variousrhythms  on top of the wireless while the dials whirled. Occasionally they would catch  snatches of advice on how to treat dragonpox, and once a few bars of “ACauldron  Full of Hot, Strong Love.” While he taped, Ron continued to try to hit on  the correct password, muttering strings of random words under his breath.   “They’re normally something to do with the Order,” he told them. “Bill had  arealknackfor guessingthem.I’mboundtogetoneintheend...”   “But not until March did luck favor Ron at last. Harry was sitting in the  tent entrance, on guard duty, staring idly at a clump of grape hyacinths that  had forced their way through the chilly ground, when Ron shouted excitedly  from inside the tent.   “I’vegotit,I’vegotit!Passwordwas ’Albus’!Getinhere,Harry.”   Roused for the first time in days from his contemplation of the Deathly  Hallows,Harry hurriedbackinsidethetenttofindRonand Hermionekneeling  on the floor beside the little radio. Hermione,who had been polishing the sword   
 of Gryffindorjustfor somethingtodo,was sitting open-mouthed, staringatthe  tiny speaker, from which a most familiar voice was issuing.   “... apologize for our temporary absence from the airwaves, which was due  to a number of house calls in our area by those charming Death Eaters.”   “But that’s LeeJordan!” said Hermione.   “I know!” beamed Ron. “Cool, eh?”   “...now found ourselves another secure location,”Leewassaying,andI’m  pleased to tell you that two of our regular contributors have joined me here this  evening. Evening, boys!”   “Hi.”   “Evening, River.”   “‘River”’ that’s Lee,” Ron explained. “They’ve all got code names, but you  can usually tell—“   “Shh!” said Hermione.   “But before we hear from Royal and Romulus,” Lee went on, “let’s take a  moment to report those deaths that the WizardingWireless NetworkNews and  DailyProphet don’t think important enough to mention. It is with great regret  that we inform our listenersof the murdersofTedTonks and Dirk Cresswell.”   Harry felt a sick, swooping in his belly. He, Ron, and Hermione gazed at  one another in horror.   “Agoblinbythe nameof Gornukwas also killed.Itis believed that Muggleborn  Dean Thomas and a second goblin, both believed to have been traveling  withTonks, Cresswell,and Gornuk,mayhave escaped.IfDeanis listening, or  if anyone has any knowledge of his whereabouts, his parents and sisters are  desperate for news.   “Meanwhile, in Gaddley, a Muggle family of five has been found dead in  their home. Muggle authorities are attributing their deaths to a gas leak,  but members of the Order of the Phoenix inform me that it was the Killing  Curse—more evidence, as if it were needed, of the fact that Muggle slaughter  is becoming little more than a recreational sport under the new regime.   “Finally, we regret to inform our listeners that the remains of Bathilda   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    Bagshot have been discovered in Godric’s Hollow. The evidence is that she  died several months ago. The Order of the Phoenix informs us that her body  showed unmistakable signs of injuries inflicted by Dark Magic.   “Listeners, I’dlike to invite you now to join us in a minute’s silence in mem- oryofTedTonks,Dirk Cresswell,Bathilda Bagshot, Gornuk,andthe unnamed,  but no less regretted, Muggles murdered by the Death Eaters.”   Silence fell, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione did not speak. Half of Harry  yearned to hear more, half of him was afraid of what might come next. It was  the first time he had felt fully connected to the outside world for a long time.   “Thank you,” said Lee’s voice. “And now we can return to regular contributor  Royal, for an update on how the new Wizarding order is affecting the  Muggle world.”   “Thanks, River,” said an unmistakable voice, deep, measured, reassuring.   “Kingsley!” burst out Ron.   “We know!” said Hermione, hushing him.   “Muggles remain ignorant of the source of their suffering as they continue  to sustain heavy casualties,” said Kingsley. “However,we continue to hear truly  inspirational stories of wizards and witches risking their own safety to protect  Muggle friends and neighbors, often without the Muggles’ knowledge. I’dlike  to appeal to all our listeners to emulate their example, perhaps by casting a  protectivecharm over any Muggle dwellingsin your street. Many lives could  be saved if suchsimple measures are taken.”   “And what would you say, Royal, to those listeners who reply that in these  dangerous times, it should be ’Wizards first’? asked Lee.   “I’d saythat it’s one short step from ’Wizards first’ to ’Purebloods first,’ and  then to ’Death Eaters,”’ replied Kingsley. “We’re all human, aren’t we? Every  human life is worth the same, and worth saving.”   “Excellently put, Royal, and you’ve got my vote for Minister of Magic if we  ever get out of this mess,” said Lee. “And now, over to Romulus for our popular  feature ’Pals ofPotter.”’   “Thanks, River,” said another very familiar voice. Ron started to speak, but   
 Hermione forestalled him in a whisper.   “We know it’s Lupin!”   “Romulus, do you maintain, as you have every time you’ve appeared on our  program, that HarryPotteris still alive?”   “I do,” said Lupin firmly. “There is no doubt at all in my mind that his  death would be proclaimed as widely as possible by the Death Eaters if it had  happened, becauseitwouldstrikeadeadlyblowatthemoraleofthoseresisting  the new regime. ’TheBoyWho Lived’ remainsa symbolof everythingfor which  we are fighting: the triumph of good, the power of innocence, the need to keep  resisting.”   Amixture of gratitude and shame welled up in Harry. Had Lupin forgiven  him, then, for the terrible things he had said when they had last met?   “And what would you sayto Harry if you knew he was listening, Romulus?”   “I’dtell him we’re all with him in spirit,” said Lupin, then hesitated slightly,  “And I’dtell him to follow his instincts,whichare good and nearly always right.”   Harry looked at Hermione, whose eyes were full of tears.   “Nearly always right,” she repeated.   “Oh, didn’t I tell you?” said Ron in surprise. “Bill told me Lupin’s living  withTonks again! And apparently she’s getting prettybig too... ”   “...andourusualupdateonthose friendsofHarryPotter’swhoare suffering  for their allegiance?” Lee was saying.   “Well, as regular listeners will know,several of the more outspoken supporters  of HarryPotter have now been imprisoned, including Xenophilius Lovegood,  erstwhile editor of The Quibbler,” said Lupin.   “At least he’s still alive!” muttered Ron.   “We have also heard within the last few hours that Rubeus Hagrid”—all  three of them gasped, and so nearly missed the rest of the sentence—“wellknown  gamekeeper at Hogwarts School, has narrowly escaped arrest within  the groundsofHogwarts, whereheis rumoredtohave hosteda ’SupportHarry  Potter’ party in his house. However, Hagrid was not taken into custody, and is,  we believe, on the run.”   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    “I supposeit helps,when escaping from Death Eaters,if you’vegotasixteenfoot- high half brother?” asked Lee.   “It would tend to give you an edge,” agreed Lupin gravely. “MayIjust add  that while we here at Potterwatchapplaud Hagrid’s spirit, we would urge even  the most devoted of Harry’s supporters against following Hagrid’s lead. ’Support  HarryPotter’ parties are unwisein the presentclimate.”   “Indeed they are, Romulus,” said Lee, “so we suggest that you continue to  show your devotion to the man with the lightning scar by listening to Potter- watch! And now let’s move to news concerning the wizard who is proving just  as elusive as HarryPotter. We like to refer to him as the Chief Death Eater,  and here to give his views on some of the more insane rumors circulating about  him, I’dlike to introduce a new correspondent. Rodent?”   “‘Rodent’?” said yet another familiar voice, and Harry, Ron, and Hermione  cried out together:   “Fred!”   “No—is it George?”   “It’s Fred, I think,” said Ron, leaning in closer, as whichever twin it was  said,   “I’mnotbeing ’Rodent,’noway,ItoldyouI wantedtobe ’Rapier’!”   “Oh, all right then, ’Rapier,’ could you please give us your take on the various  stories we’ve been hearing about the Chief Death Eater?”   “Yes, River, I can,” said Fred. “As our listeners will know, unless they’ve  taken refugeatthe bottomofa gardenpondor somewhere similar,You-KnowWho’s  strategy of remaining in the shadows is creating a nice little climate of  panic. Mind you, if all the alleged sightings of him are genuine, we must have  a good nineteenYou-Know-Whos running around the place.”   “Whichsuits him, of course,” said Kingsley. “The air of mystery is creating  more terror than actually showing himself.”   “Agreed,” saidFred. “So, people, let’s try and calm downa bit. Things are  bad enough without inventing stuff as well. For instance, this new idea that  You-Know-Who can kill people with a single glance from his eyes. That’s a   
 basilisk, listeners. One simple test: Checkwhether the thing that’s glaring at  you has got legs. If it has, it’s safe to look into its eyes, although if it really is  You-Know-Who, that’s still likely to be the last thing you ever do.”   For the first time in weeks and weeks, Harry was laughing: He could feel  the weight of tension leaving him.   “And the rumors that he keeps being sighted abroad?” asked Lee.   “Well, who wouldn’t want a nice little holidayafter all the hard work he’s  been putting in?” asked Fred. “Point is, people, don’t get lulled into a false  sense of security, thinking he’s out of the country. Maybe he is, maybe he isn’t,  but the fact remains he can move faster than Severus Snape confronted with  shampoo when he wants to, so don’t count on him being a long way away if  you’re planning to take any risks. Inever thought I’dhear myself sayit, but  safety first!”   “Thank you very muchfor those wise words, Rapier,” said Lee. ”Listeners,  that brings us to the end of another Potterwatch. We don’t know when it will  be possible to broadcast again, but you can be sure we shall be back. Keep  twiddling those dials: The next password will be ’Mad-Eye.’ Keep eachother  safe:Keep faith. Good night.”   The radio’s dial twirled and the lights behind the tuning panel went out.  Harry,Ron, and Hermionewerestill beaming. Hearing familiar,friendly voices  was an extraordinary tonic; Harry had become so used to their isolation he had  nearly forgotten that other people were resistingVoldemort. Itwas likewaking  from a long sleep.   “Good, eh?” said Ron happily.   “Brilliant,” said Harry.   “It’s so brave of them,” sighed Hermione admiringly. “If they were found  ... ”   “Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?” said Ron. “Like us.”   “But did you hear whatFred said?” asked Harry excitedly; now the broadcast  was over, his thoughts turned around toward his all consuming obsession.  “He’s abroad! He’s still looking for theWand,Iknew it!”   
 CHAPTER  22.  THE  DEATHLY  HALLOWS    “Harry—“   “Come on, Hermione, why are you so determined not to admit it?Vol—“   “HARRY, NO!”   “—demort’s after the ElderWand!”   “The name’s Taboo!” Ron bellowed, leaping to his feet as a loud crack  sounded outsidethetent.“Itoldyou,Harry,Itoldyou,wecan’tsayit anymore—  we’ve got to put the protection backaround us—quickly—it’s how they find—“   But Ron stopped talking, and Harry knew why. The Sneakoscope on the  table had lit up and begun to spin; they could hear voices coming nearer and  nearer: rough, excited voices. Ron pulled the Deluminator out of his pocket  and clicked it: Their lamps went out.   “Come out of there with your hands up!” came a rasping voice through the  darkness.“We know you’rein there!You’vegot halfa dozenwands pointingat  you and we don’t care who we curse!”   
 Chapter  23    Malfoy  Manor    H H arry looked around at the other two, now mere outlines in the  darkness. He saw Hermione point her wand, set toward the outside,  but into his face; there was a bang, a burst of white light,  and he buckled in agony, unable to see. He could feel his face swelling rapidly  under his hands as heavy footfalls surrounded him.   “Get up, vermin.”   Unknown hands dragged Harry roughly off the ground, before he could stop  them, someone had rummaged through his pockets and removed the blackthornwand.  Harryclutchedathis excruciatingly painfulface,whichfelt unrecognizable  beneath his fingers, tight, swollen, and puffy as though he had suffered  some violent allergic reaction. His eyes had been reduced to slits through  whichhe could barely see; his glasses fell off ashewas bundled outof the tent:  all he could make out were the blurred shapes of four or five people wrestling  Ron and Hermione outside too.   “Get—off—her!”Ron shouted. Therewasthe unmistakablesoundofknuckles  hitting flesh: Ron grunted in pain and Hermione screamed, “No! Leave him  alone, leave him alone!”   “Your boyfriend’s going to have worse than that done to him if he’s on my  list,” said the horribly familiar, rasping voice. “Delicious girl...whata treat   383   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    ...Ido enjoy the softnessof the skin....”   Harry’s stomachturned over. He knew who thiswas,Fenrir Greyback, the  werewolf who was permitted to wear Death Eater robes in return for his hired  savagery.   “Searchthe tent!” said another voice.   Harry was thrown face down onto the ground. A thud told him that Ron  had been cast down beside him. They could hear footsteps and crashes; the  men were pushing over chairs inside the tent as they searched.   “Now,let’s see who we’ve got,” said Greyback’sgloating voice from overhead,  andHarrywas rolled overontohisback.Abeamofwandlightfellontohisface  and Greybacklaughed.   “I’ll be needing butterbeer to washthis one down. What happened to you,  ugly?”   Harry did not answer immediately.   “I said,” repeated Greyback, and Harry received a blow to the diaphragm  that made him double over in pain. “what happened to you?”   “Stung.” Harry muttered. “Been Stung.”   “Yeah, looks like it.” said a second voice.   “What’s your name?” snarled Greyback.   “Dudley.” said Harry.   “And your first name?”   “I—Vernon.Vernon Dudley.”   “Check the list, Scabior.” said Greyback, and Harry head him move sideways  to look down at Ron, instead. “And what about you, ginger?”   “Stan Shunpike.” said Ron.   “Like ’ell you are.” said the man called Scabior. “We know Stan Shunpike,  ’e’s put a bit of work our way.”   There was another thud.   “I’b Bardy,” said Ron, and Harry could tell that his mouth was full of blood.  “BardyWeasley.”   “AWeasley?” rasped Greyback. “So you’re related to blood traitors even if   
 you’re nota Mudblood. And lastly, your pretty little friend ... ” The relishin   his voice made Harry’s flesh crawl.   “Easy, Greyback.” said Scabior over the jeering of the others.   ”Oh,I’mnotgoingtobitejustyet.We’llseeifshe’sabitquickerat remembering  her name than Barny. Who are you, girly?   “Penelope Clearwater.” said Hermione. She sounded terrified, but convincing.    “What’s your blood status?”   “Half-Blood.” said Hermione.   “Easy enough to check,” said Scabior. “But the ’ole lot of ’em look like they  could still be ’ogwarts age—”   “We’b lebt,” said Ron.   “Left, ’ave you, ginger?” said Scabior. “And you decided to go camping? And  you thought, just for a laugh, you’d use the Dark Lords name?”   “Nod a laugh,” said Ron. “Aggiden.”   “Accident?” There was more jeering laughter.   “You know who used to like using the Dark Lord’s name,Weasley?” growled  Greyback, “The Order of the Phoenix. Mean anything to you?”   “Doh.”   “Well, they don’t show the Dark Lord proper respect, so the name’s been  Tabooed. Afew Order members have been tracked that way. We’ll see. Bind  them up with the other two prisoners!”   Someone yanked Harry up by the hair, dragged him a short way, pushed  him down into a sitting position, then started binding him back-to-back with  other people. Harry was still half blind, barely able to see anything through  his puffed-up eyes. When at last the man tying then had walked away, Harry  whispered to the other prisoners.   “Anyone still got a wand?”   “No.” Said Ron and Hermione from either side of him.   “Thisis allmy fault.Isaid the name. I’m sorry—”   “Harry?”   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    It was a new, but familiar voice. and it came from directly behind Harry,  from the person tied to Hermione’s left.   “Dean?”   “It is you! If they find out who they’ve got—! They’re Snatchers,they’re only  looking for truants to sell for gold—”   “Not a bad little haul for one night.” Greyback was saying, as a pair of  hobnailed boots marched close by Harry and they heard more crashes from  inside the tent. “AMudblood,arunawaygoblin, and these truants.Youchecked  their names on the list yet, Scabior?” he roared.   “Yeah. There’s noVernon Dudley un ’ere, Greyback.”   “Interesting,” said Greyback. “That’s interesting.”   He crouched down beside Harry, who saw, through the infinitesimal gap left  between his swollen eyelids, a face covered in matted grayhair and whiskers,  with pointed brown teeth and sores in the corners of his mouth. Greyback  smelled as he had done at the top of the tower where Dumbledore had died: of  dirt, sweat, and blood.   “Soyou aren’twanted,then,Vernon?Orareyouonthatlistundera different  name? What house were you in at Hogwarts?”   “Slytherin,” said Harry automatically.   “Funny ’ow they all thinks we wants to ’ear that.” leered Scabior out of the  shadows. “But none of ’em can tell us where the common room is.”   “It’s in the dungeons.” said Harry clearly. “You enter through the wall. It’s  full of skulls and stuff and its under the lake, so the light’s all green,”   There was a short pause.   “Well, well, looks like we really ’ave caught a little Slytherin.” said Scabior.  “Good for you,Vernon, ’cause there ain’ta lotof Mudblood Slytherins. Who’s  your father?”   “He works at the Ministry,” Harry lied. He knew that his whole story would  collapse with the smallest investigation, but on the other hand, he only had  until his face regained its usual appearance before the game was up in any  case. “Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes.”   
 “You know what, Greyback,” said Scabior. “I think there is a Dudley in  there.”   Harry could barely breathe: Could luck, sheer luck, get them safely out of  this?   “Well, well.” said Greyback, and Harry could hear the tiniest note of trepidation  in that callous voice, and knew that Greyback was wondering whether he  had just indeed just attacked and bound the son of a Ministry Official. Harry’s  heart was pounding against the ropes around his ribs; he would not have been  surprised to know that Greybackcould see it. “If you’re telling the truth, ugly,  you’ve got nothing to fear from a trip to the Ministry. I expect your father’ll  reward us just for picking you up.”   “But,” said Harry, his mouth bone dry, “if you just let us—”   “Hey!” came a shout from inside the tent. “Look at this. Greyback!”   Adark figure came bustling toward them, and Harry saw a glint of silver to  the light of their wands. They had found Gryffindor’s sword.   “Ve–e–ery nice,” said Greybackappreciatively,taking it from his companion.  “Oh, very nice indeed. Looks goblin-made, that. Where did you get something  like this?”   “It’s myfather’s,” Harry lied, hoping against hope that it was too dark for  Greyback to see the name etched just below the hilt. “We borrowed it to cut  firewood—”   “’ang on a minute, Greyback! Look at this, in the Prophet!”   As Scabior said it, Harry’s scar, which was stretched tight across his distended  forehead, burned savagely. More clearly than he could make out anything  around him, he saw a towering building, a grim fortress, jet-black and  forbidding: Voldemort’s thoughts had suddenly become Razor-Sharp again; he  was gliding toward the gigantic building with a sense of calmly euphoric purpose  ....   So close...So close ...   Withahuge effortofwill Harryclosedhis mindtoVoldemort’s thoughts,  pulling himself backto where he sat, tied to Ron, Hermione,Dean, and Griphook   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    in the darkness,listening to Greybackand Scabior. “’ermione Granger,”’ Scabior  was saying, “‘the Mudbloodwhois knowntobe travelingwith’arryPotter.”’   Harry’s scar burned in the silence, but he made a supreme effort to keep  himself present,nortoslipintoVoldemort’smind.HeheardthecreakofGreyback’s  boots as he crouched down, in front of Hermione.   “you know what, little girly? This picture looks a hell of a lot like you.”   “It isn’t! It isn’t me!”   Hermione’s terrified squeak was as good as a confession.   “...knowntobe traveling with HarryPotter,” repeated Greybackquietly.   Astillness had settled over the scene. Harry’s scar was Exquisitely painful,  buthe struggled with all his strength against the pullofVoldemort’s thoughts.  It had never been so important to remain in his own right mind.   “Well, this changed things, doesn’t it?” whispered Greyback. Nobody spoke:  Harry sensed the gang of Snatchers watching, frozen, and felt Hermione’s arm  trembling against his. Greyback got up and took a couple of steps to where  Harry sat, crouching down again to stare closely at his misshapen features.   “What’s that on your forehead,Vernon?” he asked softly, his breath foul in  Harry’s nostrils as he pressed a filthy finger to the taught scar.   ”Don’t touchit! Harry yelled; he could not stop himself,he thought he might  be sickfrom the pain of it.   “I thought you wore glasses,Potter?” breathed Greyback.   “I found glasses!” yelped one of the Snatchers skulking in the background.  “There was glasses in the tent, Greyback, wait—”   And seconds later Harry’s glasses had been rammed backonto his face. The  Snatchers were closing in now, peering at him.   “It is!” rasped Greyback. “We’ve caughtPotter!”   They all took several steps backward, stunned by what they had done.  Harry, still fighting to remain present in his own splitting head, could think  of nothing to say. Fragmented visions were breaking across the surface of his  mind—   —He was gliding around the high wallsof the blackfortress—   
 No, he was Harry, tied up and wandless, in grave danger—   —looking up, up to the topmost window, the highest tower—   He was Harry, and they were discussing his fate in low voices—   —Time to fly...   “...To the Ministry?”   “To hell with the Ministry.” growled Greyback. “They’ll take the credit, and  wewon’tgetalookin.I say wetakehim straighttoYou-Know-Who.”   “Will you summon ’im? ’ere?” said Scabior, sounding awed, terrified.   “No,” snarled Greyback, “I haven’t got—they say he’s using the Malfoy’s  placeasabase.We’lltaketheboy there.”   Harry thoughthe knewwhy Greybackwas not callingVoldemort. The werewolfmightbe  allowedtowearDeathEaterrobeswhentheywantedtousehim,  but onlyVoldemort’s inner circle were branded with the Dark Mark: Greyback  had not been granted this highest honor.   Harry’s scar seared again—   —and he rose into the night, flying straight up to the windows at the very  top of the tower—   “... completely sure it’s him? ’Causeifit ain’t, Greyback, we’re dead.”   “Who’s in charge here?” roared Greyback, covering his moment of inadequacy.  “I saythat’sPotter,and him plus hiswand, that’stwo hundred thousand  Galleons right there! But if you’re too gutless to come along, any of you, it’s all  for me, and with any luck, I’ll get the girl thrown in!”   —The window was the merest slit in the black rock, not big enough for a  manto enter....Askeletal figure wasjust visible throughit, curled beneatha  blanket.... Dead,or sleeping... ?   “All right!” said Scabior. “All right, we’re in! And what about the rest of ’em,  Greyback, what’ll we do with ’em?”   “Might as well take the lot. We’ve got two Mudbloods, that’s another ten  Galleons. Give me the sword as well. If they’re rubies, that’s another small  fortune right there.”   The prisoners were dragged to their feet. Harry could hear Hermione’s   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    breathing, fast and terrified.   “Grab hold and makeit tight. I’lldoPotter!” said Greyback, seizinga fistful  of Harry’s hair; Harry could feel his long yellow nails scratching his scalp. “On  three! One—two—three—“   TheyDisapparated, pulling the prisoners with them. Harry struggled, trying  to throw off Greyback’s hand, but it was hopeless: Ron and Hermione  were squeezed tightly against him on either side; he could not separate from  the group, and as the breath was squeezed out of him his scar seared more  painfully still—   —asheforced himself through the slitofa window likea snake and landed,  lightly as vapor inside the cell-like room—   The prisoners lurched into one another as they landed in a country lane.  Harry’s eyes, still puffy, took a moment to acclimatize, then he saw a pair of  wrought-iron gates at the foot of what looked like a long drive. He experienced  the tiniest trickle of relief. The worst had not happened yet: Voldemort  was not here. He was, Harry knew, for he was fighting to resist the vision, in  some strange, fortresslike place, at the top of a tower. How long it would take  Voldemort to get to this place,once he knew that Harry was here, was another  matter....   One of the Snatchers strode to the gates and shook them.   “Howdowegetin? They’relocked, Greyback,Ican’t—blimey!”   He whipped his hands away in fright. The iron was contorting, twisting  itself out of the abstract furls and coils into a frightening face, whichspoke in  a clanging, echoing voice. “State your purpose!”   “We’ve gotPotter!” Greybackroared triumphantly. “We’ve captured Harry  Potter!”   The gates swung open.   “Come on!” said Greyback to his men, and the prisoners were shunted  through the gates and up the drive, between high hedges that muffled their  footsteps. Harry saw a ghostly white shape above him, and realized it was an  albino peacock. He stumbled andwas dragged onto his feetbyGreyback; now   
 he was staggering along sideways, tied back-to-backto the four other prisoner.  Closing his puffy eyes, he allowed the pain in his scar to overcome him for a  moment, wanting to know what Voldemort was doing, whether he knew yet  that Harrywas caught....   The emaciated figure stirred beneath its thin blanket and rolled over toward  him, eyes opening in a skull of a face. . . . The frail man sat up, great sunken  eyes fixed upon him, upon Voldemort, and then he smiled. Most of his teeth  were gone. . . .   “So, you have come. Ithought you would . . . one day. But your journey was  pointless.I never had it.”   “You lie!”   AsVoldemort’s anger throbbedinside him, Harry’s scar threatened to burst  with pain, and he wrenched his mind backto his own body, fighting to remain  present as the prisoners were pushed over gravel.   Light spilled out over all of them.   “What is this?” said a woman’s cold voice.   “We’re here to see He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!” rasped Greyback.   “Who are you?”   “Youknow me!” Therewas resentment in the werewolf’s voice. “Fenrir  Greyback!We’ve caught HarryPotter!”   Greyback seized Harry and dragged him around to face the light, forcing  the other prisoners to shuffle around too.   “I know ’es swollen, ma’am, but it’s ’im!” piped up Scabior. “If you look a bit  closer, you’ll see ’is scar. And this ’ere, see the girl? The Mudblood who’s been  traveling around with ’im, ma’am. There’s no doubt it’s ’im, and we’ve got ’is  wand as well! ’Ere, ma’am—“   Through his puffy eyelids Harry sawNarcissa Malfoy scrutinizing his swollen  face. Scabior thrust the blackthorn wand at her. She raised her eyebrows.   “Bring them in,” she said.   Harry and the others were shoved and kicked up broad stone steps into a  hallwaylined with portraits.   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    “Follow me,” saidNarcissa, leading thewayacross the hall. “My son, Draco,  ishomeforhis Easter holidays.IfthatisHarryPotter,hewillknow.”   The drawing room dazzled after the darkness outside; even with his eyes  almost closed Harry could make out the wide proportions of the room. Acrystal  chandelier hung from the ceiling, more portraits against the dark purple  walls. Two figures rose fromchairsin frontofan ornate marble fireplaceasthe  prisoners were forced into the room by the Snatchers.   “What is this?”   The dreadfully familiar,drawling voice of Lucius Malfoy fell on Harry’sears.  He was panicking now. He could see no wayout, and it was easier, as his fear  mounted,toblockoutVoldemort’s thoughts,thoughhis scarwasstill burning.   “They saythey’ve gotPotter,” said Narcissa’s cold voice. “Draco, come here.”   Harry did not dare look directly at Draco, but saw him obliquely; a figure  slightly tallerthanhewas,risingfroman armchair,hisfaceapaleandpointed  blur beneath white-blond hair.   Greyback forced the prisoners to turn again so as to place Harry directly  beneath the chandelier.   “Well, boy?” rasped the werewolf.   Harry was facing a mirror over the fireplace, a great gilded thing in an intricately  scrolled frame. Through the slits of his eyes he saw his own reflection  for the first time since leaving Grimmauld Place.   His face was huge, shiny, and pink, every feature distorted by Hermione’s  jinx. His blackhair reached his shoulders and therewasadark shadow around  his jaw. Had he not known that it was he who stood there, he would have  wondered who was wearing his glasses. He resolved not to speak, for his voice  was sure to give him away; yet he still avoided eye contact with Draco as the  latter approached.   “Well, Draco?” said Lucius Malfoy. He sounded avid. “Is it? Is it Harry  Potter?”   “I can’t—I can’t be sure,” said Draco. He was keeping his distance from  Greyback,and seemedas scaredof lookingatHarryasHarrywasof lookingat   
 him.   “But look at him carefully, look! Come closer!”   Harry had never heard Lucius Malfoy so excited.   “Draco, if we are the ones who handPotter over to the Dark Lord, everything  will be forgiv—“   “Now, we won’t be forgetting who actually caught him,Ihope Mr. Malfoy?”  said Greybackmenacingly.   “Of course not, of course not!” said Lucius impatiently. He approached  Harry himself, came so close that Harry could see the usually languid, pale  facein sharp detail even through his swollen eyes.With his facea puffy mask,  Harry felt as though he was peering out from between the bars of a cage.   “What did you do to him?” Lucius asked Greyback. “How did he get into  this state?”   “That wasn’t us.”   “Looks more like a Stinging Jinx to me,” said Lucius.   His grayeyes raked Harry’s forehead.   “There’s something there,” he whispered. “it could be the scar, stretched  tight....” Draco, come here, look properly! Whatdo you think?”   Harry saw Draco’s face up close now, right beside his father’s. They were  extraordinarily alike, except that while his father looked beside himself with  excitement, Draco’s expression was full of reluctance, even fear.   “I don’t know,” he said, and he walked awaytoward the fireplace where his  mother stood watching.   “We had better be certain, Lucius,” Narcissa called to her husband in her  cold,clear voice. “Completely surethatitisPotter,beforewe summontheDark  Lord...Theysaythisis his”—shewas lookingcloselyattheblackthornwand—  “butitdoesnot resemble Ollivander’s description....Ifweare mistaken,ifwe  call the Dark Lord here for nothing ... Remember what he did to Rowle and  Dolohov?”   “What about the Mudblood, then?” growled Greyback. Harry was nearly  thrown off his feet as the Snatchers forced the prisoners to swivel around again,   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    so that the light fell on Hermione instead.   “Wait,” said Narcissa sharply. “Yes—yes, she was in Madam Malkin’s with  Potter!Isawher pictureintheProphet!Look, Draco, isn’t it the Granger girl?”   “I ...maybe ... yeah.”   “But then, that’s the Weasley boy!” shouted Lucius, striding around the  bound prisoners to face Ron. “It’s them,Potter’s friends—Draco, look at him,  isn’tit ArthurWeasley’s son, what’s his name—?”   “Yeah,” said Draco again, his backto the prisoners. “It could be.”   The drawing room door opened behind Harry. A woman spoke, and the  sound of the voice wound Harry’s fear to an even higher pitch.   “What is this? What’s happened, Cissy?”   Bellatrix Lestrange walked slowly around the prisoners, and stopped on  Harry’s right, staring at Hermione through her heavily lidded eyes,   “But surely,” she said quietly, “this is the Mudblood girl? This is Grander?”   “Yes, yes, it’s Granger!” cried Lucius, “And beside her, we think, Potter!  Potter and his friends, caught at last!”   “Potter?” shrieked Bellatrix, and she backed away, the better to take in  Harry.“Areyou sure?Wellthen,theDarkLord mustbe informedat once!”   She dragged back her left sleeve: Harry saw the Dark Mark burned into  the fleshofher arm,and knewthatshewas aboutto touchit,to summonher  beloved master—   “I was about to call him!” said Lucius, and his hand actually closed upon  Bellatrix’s wrist, preventing her from touching the Mark. “I shall summon  him, Bella. Potter has been brought to my house, and it is therefore upon my  authority—“   “Your authority!” she sneered, attempting to wrench her hand from his  grasp. “You lost your authority when you lost your wand, Lucius! How dare  you!Take your hands off me!”   “This is nothing to do with you, you did not capture the boy—“   “Begging your pardon, Mr. Malfoy,” interjected Greyback, “but it’s us that  caughtPotter,andit’sus that’llbeclaimingthe gold—“   
 “Gold!” laughed Bellatrix, still attempting to throw off her brother-in-law,  her free hand groping in her pocket for her wand. “Take your gold, filthy scavenger,  whatdoI want with gold?Iseek only the honorof his—of—“   She stopped struggling,her dark eyes fixed upon something Harry could not  see. Jubilant at her capitulation, Lucius threw her hand from him and ripped  up his own sleeve—   “STOP!” shrieked Bellatrix, “Do not touchit, we shall all perish if the Dark  Lord comes now!”   Lucius froze, hisindex finger hovering over his own Mark. Bellatrix strode  out of Harry’s limited line of vision.   “What is that?” he heard her say.   “Sword,” grunted an out-of-sight Snatcher.   “Give it to me.”   “It’s not yours, missus, it’s mine,I reckonIfound it.”   There was a bang and a flash of red light; Harry knew that the Snatcher  had been Stunned. There was a roar of anger from his fellows: Scabior drew  his wand.   “What d’you think you’re playing at, woman?”   “Stupefy!” she screamed, ”Stupefy!”   They were no matchfor her, even thought there were four of them against  one of her: She was a witch, as Harry knew, with prodigious skill and no conscience.  They fell where they stood, all except Greyback, who had been forced  into a kneeling position, his arms outstretched. Out of the corners of his eyes  Harry saw Bellatrix bearing down upon the werewolf, the sword of Gryffindor  gripped tightly in her hand, her face waxen.   “Where did you get this sword?” she whispered to Greyback as she pulled  his wand out of his unresisting grip.   “How dare you?” he snarled, his mouth the only thing that could move as he  was forced to gaze up at her. He bared his pointed teeth. “Release me, woman!”   “Where did you find this sword?” she repeated, brandishing it in his face,  “Snape sent it to my vault in Gringotts!”   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    “Itwasin their tent,” rasped Greyback. “Release me,I say!”   She waved her wand, and the werewolf sprang to his feet, but appeared too  wary to approachher. He prowled behind an armchair, his filthy curved nails  clutching its back.   “Draco, move this scum outside,” said Bellatrix, indicating the unconscious  men. “If you haven’t got the guts to finishthem, then leave them in the courtyard  for me.”   “Don’t you dare speak to Draco like—“ said Narcissa furiously, but Bellatrix  screamed.   “Be quiet! The situationisgraver thanyou can possibly imagine, Cissy!We  have a very serious problem!”   She stood, panting slightly, looking down at the sword, examining its hilt.  Then she turned to look at the silent prisoners.   “IfitisindeedPotter,hemustnotbeharmed,”she muttered,moreto herself  than to the others. “The Dark Lord wishes to dispose ofPotter himself.... But  ifhe finds out...Imust...Imust know....”   She turned backto her sister again.   “The prisonersmustbeplacedinthecellar,whileIthinkwhattodo!”   “This is my house, Bella, you don’t give orders in my—“   “Do it! You have no idea of the danger we’re in!” shrieked Bellatrix. She  looked frightening,mad;athinstreamoffireissuedfromherwandandburned  a hole in the carpet.   Narcissa hesitated for a moment, then addressed the werewolf.   “Take these prisoners down to the cellar, Greyback.”   “Wait,” said Bellatrix sharply. “All except.... except for the Mudblood.”   Greybackgave a grunt of pleasure.   “No!” shouted Ron. “You can have me, keep me!”   Bellatrix hit him across the face: the blow echoed around the room.   “If she dies under questioning, I’ll take you next,” she said. “Blood traitor  is next to Mudblood in my book. Take them downstairs, Greyback, and make  sure they are secure, but do nothing more to them—yet.”   
 397   Shethrew Greyback’swandbacktohim,thentookashort silverknifefrom  under her robes. She cut Hermione free from the other prisoners, then dragged  her by the hair into the middle of the room, while Greybackforced the rest of  them to shuffle across to another door, into a dark passageway, his wand held  out in front of him, projecting an invisible and irresistible force.   “Reckon she’ll let me have a bit of the girl when she’s finished with her?”  Greybackcroonedashe forcedthemalongthe corridor.“I’d sayI’llgetabiteor  two, wouldn’t you, ginger?”   HarrycouldfeelRon shaking.They were forceddownasteepflightof stairs,  still tied back-to-backand in danger of slipping and breaking their necks at any  moment. At the bottom was a heavy door. Greybackunlocked it with a tap of  his wand, then forced them into a dank and musty room and left them in total  darkness. The echoing bang of the slammed cellar door had not died away  before there was a terrible, drawn out scream from directly above them.   “HERMIONE!” Ron bellowed, and he started to writhe and struggle against  the ropes tying them together, so that Harry staggered. “HERMIONE!”   “Be quiet!” Harry said. “Shut up. Ron, we need to work out a way—“   “HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”   “We need a plan, stop yelling—we need to get these ropes off—“   “Harry?” came a whisper through the darkness. “Ron? Is that you?”   Ron stopped shouting. There was a sound of movement close by them, then  Harry saw a shadow moving closer.   “Harry? Ron?”   “Luna?”   “Yes,it’sme!Ohno,Ididn’twantyoutobe caught!”   “Luna, can you help us get these ropes off?” said Harry.   “Oh yes,I expect so.... There’s an old nail we use if we need to break  anything....Justa moment... ”   Hermione screamed again from overhead, and they could hear Bellatrix  screaming too,but her words were inaudible,for Ron shouted again, “HERMIONE!  HERMIONE!”   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    “Mr. Ollivander?” Harry could hear Luna saying. “Mr. Ollivander, have you  gotthe nail?Ifyoujust move overa littlebit...Ithinkitwas besidethewater  jug.”   She was backwithin seconds.   “You’ll need to staystill,” she said.   Harry could feel her digging at the rope’s tough fibers to work the knots  free.From upstairs they heard Bellatrix’s voice.   “I’m going to ask you again! Where did you get this sword? Where?”   “Wefound it—we found it—PLEASE!” Hermione screamed again; Ron struggled  harder than ever, and the rusty nail slipped onto Harry’s wrist.   “Ron, please staystill!” Luna whispered. “I can’t see what I’m doing—“   “My pocket!” said Ron, “In my pocket, there’s a Deluminator, and it’s full of  light!”   A few seconds later, there was a click, and the luminescent spheres the  Deluminator had sucked from the lamps in the tent flew into the cellar: Unable  to rejoin their sources, they simply hung there, like tiny suns, flooding the  underground room with light. Harry saw Luna, all eyes in her white face, and  the motionless figure of Ollivander the wandmaker, curled up on the floor in  the corner. Craning around, he caught sight of their fellow prisoners: Dean  and Griphook the goblin, who seemed barely conscious, kept standing by the  ropes that bound him to the humans.   “Oh, that’s mucheasier, thanks, Ron,” said Luna, and she began hacking at  their bindings again. “Hello, Dean!”   From above came Bellatrix’s voice.   “You’relying,filthy Mudblood,andIknowit!Youhavebeeninsidemyvault  at Gringotts!Tell the truth, tell the truth!”   Another terrible scream—   “HERMIONE!”   “What else did you take? What else have you got? Tel me the truth or, I  swear,Ishall run you through with this knife!”   “There!”   
 399   Harry felt the ropes fall away and turned, rubbing his wrists, to see Ron  running around the cellar, looking up at the low ceiling, searching for a trapdoor.  Dean, his face bruised and bloody, said “Thanks” to Luna and stood there,  shivering, but Griphook sank onto the cellar floor, looking groggy and disoriented,  many welts across his swarthy face.   Ron was now trying to Disapparate without a wand.   “There’s no way out, Ron,” said Luna, watching his fruitless efforts. “The  cellaris completely escape-proof.Itried,at first.Mr. Ollivanderhasbeenhere  for a long time, he’s tried everything.”   Hermione was screaming again: The sound went through Harry like physical  pain. Barely conscious of the fierce prickling of his scar, he too started to  run around the cellar, feeling the walls for he hardly knew what, knowing in  his heart that it was useless.   “What else did you take, what else? ANSWER ME! CRUCIO!”   Hermione’s screams echoed off the walls upstairs, Ron was half sobbing as  he pounded the walls with his fists, and Harry in utter desperation seized Hagrid’s  pouchfrom around his neckand groped inside it: He pulled out Dumbledore’sSnitchand  shook it, hoping for he did not know what—nothing happened—  he waved the broken halves of the phoenix wand, but they were lifeless—the  mirror fragment fell sparkling to the floor, and he saw a gleam of brightest  blue—   Dumbledore’s eye was gazing at him out of the mirror.   “Help us!” he yelled at it in mad desperation. “We’re in the cellar of Malfoy  Manor, help us!”   The eye blinked and was gone.   Harry was not even sure that it had really been there. He tilted the shard  of mirror this wayand that, and saw nothing reflected there but the walls and  ceiling of their prison, and upstairs Hermione was screaming worse than ever,  and next to him Ron was bellowing, “HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”   “How did you get into my vault?” they heard Bellatrix scream. “Did that  dirty little goblin in the cellar help you?”   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    “We only met him tonight!” Hermione sobbed. “We’ve never been inside  your vault....Itisn’tthereal sword!It’sacopy,justacopy!”   “Acopy?” screeched Bellatrix. “Oh, a likely story!”   “But we can find out easily!” came Lucius’s voice. “Draco, fetchthe goblin,  he can tell us whether the sword is real or not!”   Harry dashed across the cellar to where Griphook was huddled on the floor.   “Griphook,” he whispered into the goblin’s pointed ear, “you must tell them  that sword’s a fake, they mustn’t know it’s the real one, Griphook, please—“   He could hear someone scuttling own the cellar steps; next moment, Draco’s  shaking voice spoke from behind the door.   “Stand back. Line up against the back wall. Don’t try anything, or I’ll kill  you!”   They did as they were bidden; as the lockturned, Ronclicked the Deluminator  and the lights whisked backinto his pocket, restoring the cellar’s darkness.  The door flew open; Malfoy marched inside, wand held out in front of him, pale  and determined. He seized the little goblin by the arm and backed out again,  dragging Griphook with him. The door slammedshut and at the same moment  a loud crack echoed inside the cellar.   Ronclickedthe Deluminator. Threeballsoflightflewbackintotheairfrom  his pocket, revealing Dobby the house-elf, who had just Apparated into their  midst.   “DOB—!”   Harry hit Ron on the arm to stop him shouting, and Ron looked terrified at  his mistake.Footsteps crossed the ceiling overhead: Draco marching Griphook  to Bellatrix.   Dobby’s enormous, tennis—ball shaped eyes were wide; he was trembling  fromhisfeettothetipsofhis ears.Hewasbackinthehomeofhisold masters,  and it was clear that he was petrified.   “HarryPotter,”he squeakedinthe tiniest quiverofavoice,“Dobbyhas come  to rescue you.”   “But how did you—?”   
 An awful scream drowned Harry’s words: Hermione was being tortured  again. He cut to the essentials.   “You can Disapparate out of this cellar?” he asked Dobby, who nodded, his  ears flapping.   “And you can take humans with you?”   Dobby nodded again.   “Right.Dobby,IwantyoutograbLuna,Dean,andMr. Ollivander,andtake  them—take them to—“   “Bill and Fleur’s,” said Ron. “Shell Cottage on the outskirts of Tinworth!”   The elf nodded for a third time.   “And then come back,” said Harry. “Can you do that, Dobby?”   “Of course,HarryPotter,” whisperedthelittleelf.He hurriedovertoMr.Ollivander, whoappearedtobebarely conscious.Hetookoneofthewandmaker’s  hands in his own, then held out the other to Luna and Dean, neither of whom  moved.   “Harry, we want to help you!” Luna whispered.   “We can’t leave you here,” said Dean.   “Go,bothofyou!We’llseeyouatBilland Fleur’s.”   As Harry spoke, his scar burned worse than ever, and for a few seconds he  looked down, not upon the wandmaker, but on another man who was just as  old, just as thin, but laughing scornfully.   “Killme, then.Voldemort,Iwelcome death!Butmy deathwillnotbringyou  what you seek....Thereis so muchyoudo not understand.... ”   He feltVoldemort’s fury, but as Hermione screamed again he shut it out,  returning to the cellar and the horror of his own present.   “Go!” Harry beseeched to Luna and Dean. “Go!We’ll follow, just go!”   They caught holdoftheelf’s outstretched fingers. Therewas another loud  crack, and Dobby, Luna, Dean, and Ollivander vanished.   “What was that?” shouted Lucius Malfoy from over their heads. “Did you  hear that? What was that noise in the cellar?”   Harry and Ron stared at eachother.   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    “Draco—no, callWormtail! Make himgo andcheck!”   Footsteps crossed the room overhead, then there was silence. Harry knew  that the people in the drawing room were listening for more noises from the  cellar.   “We’re going to have to try and tackle him,” he whispered to Ron. They  had no choice: The moment anyone entered the room and saw the absence of  three prisoners, they were lost. “Leave the lights on,” Harry added, and as they  heard someone descending the steps outside the door, they backed against the  wall on either side of it.   “Stand back,” cameWormtail’svoice. “Standawayfrom the door. I’m coming  in.” The door flew open.Fora splitsecondWormtail gazed into the apparently  empty cellar,ablaze with light from the three miniature suns floating in midair.  Then Harry and Ron launched themselves upon him. Ron seizedWormtail’s  wand arm and forced it upwards. Harry slapped a hand to his mouth, muffling  his voice. Silently they struggled: Wormtail’s wand emitted sparks;his silver  hand closed around Harry’s throat.   “What is it,Wormtail?” called Lucius Malfoy from above.   “Nothing!” Ron calledback,ina passable imitationofWormtail’s wheezy  voice. “All fine!”   Harry could barely breathe.   “You’re going to kill me?” Harry choked, attempting to prise off the metal  fingers. “AfterI saved your life?You owe me,Wormtail!”   The silver fingers slackened. Harry had not expected it: He wrenched himself  free, astonished, keeping his hand over Wormtail’s mouth. He saw the  ratlike man’s small watery eyes widen with fear and surprise: He seemed just  as shocked as Harry at what his hand had done, at the tiny, merciful impulse it  had betrayed, and he continued to struggle more powerfully, as though to undo  that moment of weakness.   “And we’ll have that,” whispered Ron, tugging Wormtail’s wand from his  other hand.   Wandless, helpless, Pettigrew’s pupils dilated in terror. His eyes had slid   
 from Harry’s face to something else. His own silver fingers were moving inex   orably toward his own throat.   “No—“   Without pausing to think, Harry tried to drag backthe hand, but therewas  no stopping it. The silver tool thatVoldemort had given his most cowardly servant  had turned upon its disarmed and useless owner;Pettigrewwas reaping  hisrewardforhishesitation,his momentofpity;hewasbeing strangled before  their eyes.   “No!”   Ron had released Wormtail too, and together he and Harry tried to pull  the crushing metal fingers from aroundWormtail’s throat, butitwas no use.  Pettigrew was turning blue.   “Relashio!” said Ron, pointing the wand at the silver hand, but nothing  happened;Pettigrew droppedtohis knees,andatthe same moment, Hermione  gave a dreadful scream from overhead. Wormtail’s eyes rolled upward in his  purple face; he gave a last twitch, and was still.   Harry and Ron looked at each other, thenleavingWormtail’s body on the  floor behind them, ran up the stairs and back into the shadowy passageway  leading to the drawing room. Cautiously they crept along it until they reached  the drawing room door, which was ajar. Now they had a clear view of Bellatrix  looking down at Griphook, who was holding Gryffindor’s sword in his long- fingered hands. Hermionewas lyingat Bellatrix’sfeet. Shewas barely stirring.   “Well?” Bellatrix said to Griphook. “Is it the true sword?”   Harry waited, holding his breath, fighting against the prickling of his scar.   “No,” said Griphook. “It is a fake.”   “Are you sure?” panted Bellatrix. “Quite sure?”   “Yes,” said the goblin.   Relief broke across her face, all tension drained from it.   “Good,” she said, and with a casual flick of her wand she slashed another  deep cut into the goblin’s face, and he dropped with a yell at her feet. She  kicked him aside. “And now,” she said in a voice that burst with triumph, “we   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    call the Dark Lord!”   And she pushed back her sleeve and touched her forefinger to the Dark  Mark.   At once, Harry’s scar felt as though it had split open again. His true surroundings  vanished: He was Voldemort, and the skeletal wizard before him  was laughing toothlessly at him; he was enraged at the summons he felt—he  hadwarnedthem,hehadtoldthemto summonhimfornothinglessthanPotter.  If they were mistaken ...   “Kill me, then!” demanded the old man. “You will not win, you cannot win!  That wand will never,ever be yours—“   AndVoldemort’s fury broke: A burst of green light filled the prison room  and the frail old bodywas lifted from its hard bed andthen fell back, lifeless,  andVoldemort returned to the window, his wrath barely controllable.... They  would suffer his retributionif they had no good reason for calling him back....   “AndIthink,” said Bellatrix’s voice, “we can disposeof the Mudblood. Grey- back, take her if you want her.”   “NOOOOOOOOOOOO!”   Ron had burst into the drawing room; Bellatrix looked around, shocked; she  turned her wand to face Ron instead—   “Expelliarmus!”he roared, pointingWormtail’swandat Bellatrix,andhers  flew into the air and was caught by Harry, who had sprinted after Ron. Lucius,  Narcissa, Draco and Greyback wheeled about; Harry yelled, “Stupefy!” and  Lucius Malfoy collapsed onto the hearth. Jets of light flew from Draco’s, Narcissa’s,  and Greyback’s wands; Harry threw himself to the floor, rolling behind  a sofa to avoid them.   “STOP OR SHE DIES!   Panting,Harrypeeredaroundtheedgeofthesofa. Bellatrixwas supporting  Hermione, who seemed to be unconscious, and was holding her short silver  knife to Hermione’s throat.   “Drop your wands,” she whispered. “Drop them, or we’ll see exactly how  filthy her blood is!”   
 Ron stood rigid, clutching Wormtail’s wand. Harry straightened up, still  holding Bellatrix’s.   “I said, drop them!” she screeched, pressing the blade into Hermione’s  throat: Harry saw beads of blood appear there.   “All right!”he shouted,andhe dropped Bellatrix’swand ontothe floorathis  feet, Ron did the same withWormtail’s. Both raised their hands to shoulder  height.   “Good!” she leered. “Draco, pickthem up! The Dark Lord is coming, Harry  Potter!Your death approaches!”   Harry knew it; his scar was bursting with the pain of it, and he could feel  Voldemort flying through the sky from far away, over a dark and stormy sea,  and soon he would be close enough to Apparate to them, and Harry could see  no wayout.   “Now,” said Bellatrix softly, as Draco hurried back to her with the wands.  “Cissy, I think we ought to tie these little heroes up again, while Greyback  takes care of Miss Mudblood. Iam sure the Dark Lord will not begrudge you  the girl, Greyback, after what you have done tonight.”   At the last word there was a peculiar grinding noise from above. All of  them looked upward in time to see the crystal chandelier tremble; then, with a  creak and an ominous jingling, it began to fall. Bellatrix was directly beneath  it; dropping Hermione, she threw herself aside with a scream. The chandelier  crashedtothe floorinan explosionof crystalandchains, fallingontopof  Hermione and the goblin, who stillclutched the swordof Gryffindor. Glittering  shards of crystal flew in all directions; Draco doubled over, his hands covering  his bloody face.   AsRonrantopull Hermioneoutofthewreckage,Harrytookthechance:He  leapt over an armchair and wrested the threewands from Draco’s grip, pointed  all of them at Greyback, and yelled, “Stupefy!” The werewolf was lifted off his  feet by the triple spell, flew up to the ceiling and then smashed to the ground.   As Narcissa dragged Draco outof thewayof further harm, Bellatrix sprang  to her feet, her hair flying as she brandished the silver knife; but Narcissa had   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    directed her wand at the doorway.   “Dobby!” she screamed and even Bellatrix froze. “You! You dropped the  chandelier—?”   The tiny elf trotted into the room, his shaking finger pointing at his old  mistress.   “You must not hurt HarryPotter,” he squeaked.   “Kill him, Cissy!” shrieked Bellatrix, but there was another loud crack, and  Narcissa’s wand too flew into the air and landed on the other side of the room.   “You dirty little monkey!” bawled Bellatrix. “How dare you take a witch’s  wand, how dare you defy your masters?”   “Dobby has no master!” squealed the elf. “Dobby is a free elf, and Dobby  has come to save HarryPotter and his friends!”   Harry’s scar was blinding him with pain. Dimly he knew that they had  moments, seconds beforeVoldemortwas with them.   “Ron, catch—and GO!” he yelled, throwing one of the wands to him; then  he bent down to tug Griphook out from under the chandelier. Hoisting the  groaning goblin, who still clung to the sword, over one shoulder, Harryseized  Dobby’s hand and spun on the spot to Disapparate.   As he turned into darkness he caught one last view of the drawing room  of the pale, frozen figures of Narcissa and Draco, of the streak of red that was  Ron’s hair, and a blue of flying silver, as Bellatrix’s knife flew across the room  at the place where he was vanishing—   Bill and Fleur’s . . . Shell Cottage . . . Bill and Fleur’s . . .   He had disappeared into the unknown; allhe coulddowas repeat the name  of the destination and hope that it would suffice to take him there. The pain in  his forehead pierced him, and the weight of the goblin bore down upon him; he  could feel the blade of Gryffindor’s sword bumping against his back: Dobby’s  hand jerked in his; he wondered whether the elf was trying to take charge, to  pull them in the right direction, and tried, by squeezing the fingers, to indicate  that thatwas fine with them....   And then they hit solid earth and smelled salty air. Harry fell to his knees,   
 relinquished Dobby’s hand, and attempted to lower Griphook gently to the  ground.   “Are you all right?” he said as the goblin stirred, but Griphook merely whimpered.    Harry squinted around through the darkness. There seemed to be a cottage  a short way awayunder the wide starry sky, and he thought he saw movement  outside it.   “Dobby, is this Shell Cottage?” he whispered, clutching the two wands he  had brought from the Malfoys’, ready to fight if he needed to. “Have we come  to the right place? Dobby?”   He looked around. The little elf stood feet from him.   “DOBBY!”   The elf swayed slightly, stars reflected in his wide, shining eyes. Together,  he and Harry looked down at the silver hilt of the knife protruding from the  elf’s heavingchest.   “Dobby—no—HELP!” Harry bellowed toward the cottage,toward the people  moving there. “HELP!”   He did not know or care whether they were wizards or Muggles, friends or  foes; all he cared about was that a dark stain was spreading across Dobby’s  front, and that he had stretched out his own arms to Harry with a look of  supplication. Harry caught him and laid him sideways on the cool grass.   “Dobby, no, don’t die, don’t die—”   Theelf’seyesfoundhim,andhislips trembledwiththeefforttoformwords.   “Harry ...Potter ... ”   And then with a little shudder the elf became quite still, and his eyes were  nothing more than great glassy orbs, sprinkled with light from the stars they  could not see.   
 CHAPTER  23.  MALFOY  MANOR    
 Chapter  24    The  Wandmaker    I I t was like sinking into an old nightmare; for an instant Harry knelt  again beside Dumbledore’s body at the foot of the tallest tower at Hogwarts, butinrealityhewasstaringatatinybody curleduponthegrass,  piercedbyBellatrix’ssilver knife. Harry’svoicewas still saying,“Dobby... Dobby... ”  even though he knew that the elf had gone where he could not call him back.  After a minute or so he realized that they had, after all, come to the right  place, for here were Bill and Fleur, Dean and Luna, gathering around him as  he knelt over the elf. “Hermione,” he said suddenly. “Where is she?” “Ron’s  taken her inside,” said Bill. “She’ll be all right.” Harry looked back down at  Dobby.He stretchedoutahandandpulledthesharp bladefromtheelf’sbody,  then dragged off his own jacket and covered Dobby in it like a blanket.  The sea was rushing against the rock somewhere nearby; Harry listened  to it while the others talked, discussing matters in which he could take no  interest, making decisions, Dean carried the injured Griphook into the house,  Fleur hurrying with them; now Bill was really knowing what he was saying.  As he did so, he gazed down at the tiny body, and his scar prickled and burned,  andinonepartofhismind,viewedasiffromthewrongendofalong telescope,  he sawVoldemort punishing those they had left behind at the Malfoy Manor.  His rage was dreadful and yet Harry’s grief for Dobby seemed to diminish it,   409   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    so that it became a distant storm that reached Harry from across a vast, silent  ocean.   “I want to do it properly,” were the first words of which Harry was fully  conscious of speaking. “Not by magic. Have you got a spade?” And shortly  afterward he had set to work, alone, digging the grave in the place that Bill  had shown him at the end of the garden, between bushes. He dug with a kind  of fury, relishing the manual work, glorying in the non-magic of it, for every  drop of his sweat and every blister felt like a gift to the elf who had saved their  lives.   Hisscarburned,buthewas masterofthepain,hefeltit,yetwasapartfrom  it. He had learned control at last, learned to shut his mind toVoldemort, the  verything DumbledorehadwantedhimtolearnfromSnape.JustasVoldemort  had not been able to possess Harry while Harry was consumed with grief for  Sirius,so his thoughts could not penetrate Harry now while he mourned Dobby.  Grief, it seemed, droveVoldemort out... though Dumbledore, of course, would  have said that it was love.   On Harry dug, deeper and deeper into the hard, cold earth, subsuming his  grief in sweat, denying the pain in his scar. In the darkness, with nothing but  the sound of his own breath and the rushing sea to keep him company, the  things that had happened at the Malfoys’ returned to him, the things he had  heard camebacktohim,and understanding blossomedinthe darkness...   Thesteadyrhythmofhis armsbeattimewithhis thoughts. Hallows... Horcruxes... Hallows.  no longer burned with that weird, obsessive longing. Loss and fear had snuffed  it out. He felt as though he had been slapped awake again.   Deeper and deeper Harry sank into the grave, and he knew whereVoldemort  had been tonight, and whom he had killed in the topmost cell of Nurmengard,  and why...   Andhe thoughtofWormtail, dead becauseof onesmall unconscious impulse  of mercy... Dumbledore had foreseen that...How much more hadhe known?   Harry lost track of time. He knew only that the darkness had lightened  a few degrees when he was rejoined by Ron and Dean. “How’s Hermione?”   
 “Better,” said Ron. “Fleur’s looking after her.” Harry had his retort ready for  when they asked him why he had not simply created a perfect grave with his  wand, but he did not need it. They jumped down into the hole he had made  with spades of their own and together they worked in silence until the hole  seemed deep enough.   Harry wrapped the elf more snugly in his jacket. Ron sat on the edge of the  grave and stripped off his shoes and socks, which he placed on the elf’s bare  feet. Dean produced a woolen hat, whichHarry placed carefully upon Dobby’s  head, muffling his batlike ears. “We should close his eyes.”   Harry had not heard the others coming through the darkness. Bill was  wearing a traveling cloak, Fleur a large white apron, from the pocket of which  protruded a bottle of what Harry recognized to be Skele-Gro. Hermione was  wrapped in a borrowed dressing gown, pale and unsteady on her feet; Ron put  an arm around her when she reached him. Luna, who was huddled in one of  Fleur’s coats, crouched down and placed her fingers tenderly upon eachof the  elf’s eyelids, sliding them over his glassy stare. “There,” she said softly. “Now  he could be sleeping.”   Harry placed the elf into the grave,arranged his tiny limbs so that he might  have been resting, then climbed out and gazed for the last time upon the little  body. He forced himself not to break down as he remembered Dumbledore’s  funeral, and the rows and rows of golden chairs, and the Minister of Magic in  the front row, the recitation of Dumbledore’s achievements, the stateliness of  the white marble tomb. He felt that Dobby deserved just as grand a funeral,  and yet here the elf lay between bushes in a roughly dug hole. “I think we  ought to saysomething,” piped up Luna. “I’ll go first, shall I?”   And as everybody looked at her, she addressed the dead elf at the bottom  of the grave. “Thank you so muchDobby for rescuing me from that cellar. It’s  so unfair that you had to die when you were so good and brave. I’ll always  remember what you did for us.Ihope you’re happy now.”   She turned and looked expectingly at Ron, who cleared his throat and said  in a thick voice, “yeah... thanks Dobby.” “Thanks,” muttered Dean. Harry   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    swallowed. “Good bye Dobby,” he said It was all he could manage, but Luna  had said it all for him. Bill raised his wand, and the pile of earth beside the  graveroseupintotheairandfellneatlyuponit,asmall, reddishmound.“D’ya  mindifIstayherea moment?”He askedthe others.   They murmured words he did not catch; he felt gentle pats upon his back,  and then they all traipsed backtoward the cottage, leaving Harry alone beside  the elf.   He looked around: There werea numberof large white stones, smoothedby  the sea, marking the edge of the flower beds. He picked up one of the largest  and laid it, pillowlike, over the place where Dobby’s head now rested. He then  felt in his pocket for a wand. There were two in there. He had forgotten,  lost track; he could not now remember whose wands these were; he seemed to  remember wrenching them out of someone’s hand. He selected the shorter of  the two, whichfelt friendlier in his hand, and pointed it at the rock.   Slowly,under his murmured instruction, deep cuts appeared upon the rock’s  surface. He knew that Hermione could have done it more neatly, and probably  more quickly, but he wanted to mark the spot as he had wanted to dig the  grave. When Harry stood up again, the stone read:   HERE  LIES  DOBBY,  A  FREE  ELF.    He looked at his handiwork for a few more seconds, then walked away, his  scar still prickling a little, and his mind full of those things that had come  to him in the grave, ideas that had taken shape in the darkness, ideas both  fascinating and terrible.   They were all sitting in the living room when he entered the little hall,  their attention focused upon Bill, whowas talking. The roomwas light-colored,  pretty, with a small fire of driftwood burning brightly in the fireplace. Harry  didnotwanttodropmuduponthe carpet,sohe stoodinthe doorway,listening.   “...lucky that Ginny’s on holiday. If she’d been at Hogwarts they could  have taken her before we reached her. Now we know she’s safe too.” He looked  around and saw Harry standing there. “I’ve been getting them all out of the   
 Burrow,” he explained. “Moved them to Muriel’s. The Death Eaters know Ron’s  with you now, they’re bound to target the family—don’t apologize,” he added at  the sight of Harry’s expression. “It was always a matter of time, Dad’s been  saying so for months.We’re the biggest blood traitor family thereis.”   “How are they protected?” asked Harry. “Fidelius Charm. Dad’s Secret- Keeper. And we’ve done it on this cottage too; I’m Secret-Keeper here. None  of us can go to work, but that’s hardly the most important thing now. Once  Ollivander and Griphook are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too.  There isn’t much room here, but she’s got plenty. Griphook’s legs are on the  mend. Fleur’s given him Skele-Gro—we could probably move them in an hour  or—“   “No,”HarrysaidandBill looked startled.“Ineedbothofthemhere.Ineed  to talk to them. It’s important.” He heard the authority of his own voice, the  conviction, the voice of purpose that had come to him as he dug Dobby’s grave.  All of their faces were turned toward him looking puzzled.   “I’m going to wash,” Harry told Bill looking down at his hands still covered  with mud and Dobby’s blood. “Then I’ll need to see them, straight away.” He  walked into the little kitchen, to the basin beneath a window overlooking the  sea. Dawn was breaking over the horizon, shell pink and faintly gold, as he  washed, again following the train of thought that had come to him in the dark  garden...   Dobby would never be able to tell them who had sent him to the cellar, but  Harryknewwhathehad seen.Apiercingblueeyehad lookedoutofthe mirror  fragment, and then help had come. Help will always be given at Hogwarts to  those who askfor it.   Harry dried his hands, impervious to the beauty of the scene outside the  window and to the murmuring of the others in the sitting room. He looked out  over the ocean and felt closer, this dawn, than ever before, closer to the heart  of it all.   And still his scar prickled, andhe knew thatVoldemortwas getting there  too. Harry understood and yet did not understand. His instinctwas telling him   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    one thing, his brain quite another. The Dumbledore in Harry’s head smiled,  surveying Harry over the tips of his fingers, pressed together as if in prayer.   You gave Ron the Deluminator. . .You understood him. . . . You gave him a  way back. . .   Andyou understoodWormtail too.... You knew there wasabitof regret  there, somewhere....   Andifyouknew them...Whatdidyouknow aboutme, Dumbledore?   AmI meant to know but not to seek? Did you know how hard I’dfeel that?  Is that why you made it this difficult? So I’dhave time to workthat out?   Harry stood quite still, eyes glazed, watching the place where a bright gold  ray of dazzling sun was rising over the horizon. Then he looked down at his  clean hands and was momentarily surprised to see the cloth he was holding in  them. He set it down and returned to the hall, and as he did so, he felt his  scar pulse angrily, and then flashed across his mind, swift as the reflection of a  dragonfly over water, the outline of a building he knew extremely well.   Bill and Fleur were standing at the foot of the stairs.   “I need to speak to Griphook and Ollivander,” Harry said.   “No,” said Fleur. “You will ’ave to wait, ’Arry. Zey are both too tired—”   “I’m sorry,” he said without heat, “but it can’t wait. Ineed to talk to them  now. Privately—and separately. It’s urgent.”   “Harry,whatthehell’sgoingon?” askedBill.“Youturnupherewithadead  house-elf and a half-conscious goblin, Hermione looks as though she’s been  tortured, and Ron’s just refused to tell me anything—”   “We can’t tell you what we’re doing,” said Harry flatly. “You’re in the Order,  Bill,youknow Dumbledoreleftusa mission.We’renot supposedtotalk about  it to anyone else.”   Fleur made an impatient noise, but Billdid not look at her; he was staring  at Harry. His deeply scarred facewas hardto read.Finally, Bill said, “All right.  Who do you want to talk to first?”   Harry hesitated. He knew what hung on his decision. There was hardly  any time left; now was the moment to decide: Horcruxes or Hallows?   
 “Griphook,” Harry said. “I’ll speak to Griphook first.”   His heart was racing as if he had been sprinting and had just cleared an  enormous obstacle.   “Up here, then,” said Bill, leading the way.   Harry had walked up several steps before stopping and looking back.   “I need you two as well!” he called to Ron and Hermione, who had been  skulking, half concealed, in the doorwayof the sitting room.   They both moved into the light, looking oddly relieved.   “How are you?” Harry asked Hermione. “You were amazing—coming up  with that story when she was hurting you like that—”   Hermione gave a weak smile as Ron gave her a one-armed squeeze.   “What are we doing now, Harry?” he asked.   “You’ll see. Come on.”   Harry, Ron, and Hermione followed Bill up the steep stairs onto a small  landing. Three doors led off it.   “In here,” said Bill, opening the door into his and Fleur’s room, it too had  a view of the sea, now flecked with gold in the sunrise. Harry moved to the  window, turned his back on the spectacular view, and waited, his arms folded,  his scar prickling. Hermione took the chair beside the dressing table; Ron sat  on the arm.   Bill reappeared, carrying the little goblin, whom he set down carefully upon  the bed. Griphook grunted thanks,and Bill left,closing the door upon them all.   “I’m sorry to take you out of bed,” said Harry. “How are your legs?”   “Painful,” replied the goblin. “But mending.”   Hewas stillclutching the swordof Gryffindor, and worea strange look: half  truculent, half intrigued. Harry noted the goblin’s sallow skin, his long thin  fingers, his blackeyes. Fleur had removed his shoes: His long feet were dirty.  He was larger than a house-elf, but not by much. His domed head was much  bigger than a human’s.   “You probably don’t remember—” Harry began.   “—thatI was the goblin who showed you to your vault, the first time you   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    ever visited Gringotts?” said Griphook. “I remember, Harry Potter. Even  amongst goblins, you are very famous.”   Harry and the goblin looked at each other, sizing each other up. Harry’s  scarwasstillprickling.Hewantedtogetthroughthis interviewwithGriphook  quickly,andatthesametimewasafraidofmakingafalse move.Whilehetried  to decide on the best wayto approachhis request, the goblin broke the silence.   “You buried the elf,” he said, sounding unexpectedly rancorous. “I watched  you from the window of the bedroom next door.”   “Yes,” said Harry.   Griphook looked at him out of the corners of his slanting blackeyes.   “You are an unusual wizard, HarryPotter.”   “In what way?” asked Harry, rubbing his scar absently.   “You dug the grave.”   “So?”   Griphookdidnot answer. Harry rather thoughthewasbeing sneeredatfor  acting like a Muggle, but it did not matter to him whether Griphook approved  of Dobby’s grave or not. He gathered himself for the attack.   “Griphook,Ineed to ask—”   “You also rescued a goblin.”   “What?”   “You brought me here. Saved me.”   “Well,Itakeit you’re not sorry?” said Harrya little impatiently.   “No, HarryPotter,” said Griphook, and with one finger he twisted the thin  blackbeard upon his chin, “but you are a very odd wizard.”   “Right,” said Harry. “Well,Ineed some help, Griphook, and you can give it  to me.”   The goblin made no sign of encouragement, but continued to frown at Harry  as though he had never seen anything like him.   “I need to break into a Gringotts vault.”   Harry had not meant to sayit so badly: the words were forced from him as  pain shot through his lightning scar and he saw,again, the outline of Hogwarts.   
 He closed his mind firmly. He needed to deal with Griphook first. Ron and   Hermione were staring at Harry as though he had gone mad.   “Harry—” said Hermione, but she was cut off by Griphook.   “Break into a Gringotts vault?” repeated the goblin, wincing a little as he  shifted his position upon the bed. “It is impossible.”   “No, it isn’t,” Ron contradicted him. “It’s been done.”   “Yeah,” said Harry. “The same dayIfirst met you, Griphook. My birthday,  seven years ago.”   “The vault in question was empty at the time,” snapped the goblin, and  Harry understood that even though Griphook had let Gringotts, he was offendedattheideaofits  defensesbeingbreached.“Its protectionwas minimal.”   “Well, the vault we need to get into isn’t empty, and I’m guessing its protection  will be pretty powerful,” said Harry. “It belongs to the Lestranges.”   He saw Hermione and Ron look at eachother, astonished, but there would  be time enough to explain after Griphook had given his answer.   “You have no chance,” said Griphook flatly. “No chance at all. If you seek  beneath our floors, a treasure that was never yours—”   “Thief, you have been warned, beware—yeah, I know, I remember,” said  Harry. “But I’m not trying to get myself any treasure, I’m not trying to take  anything for personal gain. Can you believe that?”   The goblin looked slantwise at Harry, and the lightning scar on Harry’s  forehead prickled, but he ignored it, refusing to acknowledge its pain or its  invitation.   “If therewasa wizardof whomIwould believe thattheydid not seekpersonal  gain,” said Griphook finally, “it would be you, HarryPotter. Goblins and  elves are not used to the protection or the respect that you have shown this  night. Not from wand-carriers.”   “Wand-carriers,” repeated Harry: The phrase fell oddly upon his ears as  his scar prickled, asVoldemort turned his thoughts northward, and as Harry  burned to question Ollivander next door.   “Therighttocarryawand,”saidthegoblinquietly,“haslongbeen contested   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    between wizards and goblins.”   “Well, goblins can do magic without wands,” said Ron.   “That is immaterial! Wizards refuse to share the secrets of wandlore with  other magical beings, they deny us the possibility of extending our powers!”   “Well, goblins won’t share any of their magic either,” said Ron. “You won’t  tell us how to make swords and armor the wayyou do. Goblins know how to  work metal in a waywizards have never—”   “It doesn’t matter,” said Harry, noting Griphook’s rising color. “This isn’t  about wizards versus goblins or any other sort of magical creature—”   Griphook gave a nasty laugh.   “But it is, it is precisely that! As the Dark Lord becomes ever more powerful,  your race is set still more firmly above mine! Gringotts falls underWizarding  rule, house-elves are slaughtered, and who amongst the wand-carriers  protests?”   “We do!” said Hermione. She had sat up straight, her eyes bright. “We  protest! And I’m hunted quite as much as any goblin or elf, Griphook! I’m a  Mudblood!”   “Don’t call yourself—” Ron muttered.   “Why shouldn’t I?” said Hermione. “Mudblood, and proud of it! I’ve got no  higher position under this new order than you have, Griphook! It was me they  chose to torture, backat the Malfoys!”   As she spoke, she pulled aside the neckof the dressing gown to reveal the  thin cut Bellatrix had made, scarlet against her throat.   “Did you know that it was Harry who set Dobby free?” she asked. “Did you  know that we’ve wanted elves to be freed for years?” (Ron fidgeted uncomfortablyonthe  armof Hermione’schair.)“You can’twantYou-Know-Who defeated  more than we do, Griphook!”   The goblin gazed at Hermione with the same curiosity he had shown Harry.   “What do you seek within the Lestranges’ vault?” he asked abruptly. “The  sword that lies inside it is a fake. This is the real one.” He looked from one to  the other of them. “I think that you already know this.You asked me to lie for   
 419   you backthere.”   “But the fake sword isn’t the only thing in that vault, is it?” asked Harry.  “Perhaps you’ve seen other things in there?”   Hisheartwaspoundingharderthanever.He redoubledhiseffortstoignore  the pulsing of his scar.   The goblin twisted his beard around his finger again.   “It is against our code to speak of the secrets of Gringotts. We are the  guardians of fabulous treasures. We have a duty to the objects placed in our  care, which were, so often, wrought by our fingers.”   The goblin stroked the sword, and his blackeyes roved from Harry to Hermione  to Ron and then backagain.   “So young,” he said finally, “to be fighting so many.”   “Will you help us?” said Harry. “We haven’t got a hope of breaking in withouta  goblin’s help.You’re our onechance.”   “I shall ... think about it,” said Griphook maddeningly.   “But—” Ron started angrily; Hermione nudged him in the ribs.   “Thank you,” said Harry.   The goblin bowed his great domed head in acknowledgement, then flexed  his short legs.   “I think,” he said, settling himself ostentatiously upon Bill and Fleur’s bed,  “thatthe Skele-Grohasfinisheditswork.Imaybeabletosleepatlast.Forgive  me....”   “Yeah, of course,” said Harry, but before leaving the room he leaned forward  and took the sword of Gryffindor from beside the goblin. Griphook did not  protest, but Harry thought he saw resentment in the goblin’s eyes as he closed  the door upon him.   “Little git,” whispered Ron. “He’s enjoying keeping us hanging.”   “Harry,” whispered Hermione, pulling them both awayfrom the door, into  themiddleofthe still-darklanding,“areyousayingwhatIthinkyou’resaying?  Are you saying there’s a Horcrux in the Lestranges vault?”   “Yes,” said Harry. “Bellatrix was terrified when she thought we’d been in   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    there, she was beside herself. Why? What did she think we’dseen, what else  did she think we mighthave taken? Something shewas petrifiedYou-Know- Who would find out about.”   “ButIthought we were looking for placesYou-Know-Who’s been, places he’s  done something important?” said Ron, looking baffled. “Was he ever inside the  Lestranges’ vault?”   “I don’t know whether he was ever inside Gringotts,” said Harry. “He never  had gold there when he was younger, because nobody left him anything. He  would have seen the bank from the outside, though, the firsttime he ever went  to Diagon Alley.”   Harry’s scar throbbed, but he ignored it; he wanted Ron and Hermione to  understand about Gringotts before they spoke to Ollivander.   “I think he would have envied anyone who had a key to a Gringotts vault.  Ithinkhe’dhave seenitasa real symbolof belongingtotheWizarding world.  And don’t forget, he trusted Bellatrix and her husband. They were his most devoted  servants before he fell, and they went looking for him after he vanished.  He saidit nighthe came back,Iheard him.”   Harry rubbed his scar.   “I don’t think he’dhave told Bellatrix it was a Horcrux, though. He never  told LuciusMalfoythetruthaboutthediary.He probablytoldheritwasatreasured  possession and asked her to place it in her vault. The safest place in the  worldfor anythingyouwanttohide,Hagridtoldme...exceptforHogwarts.”   When Harry had finished speaking, Ron shook his head.   “You really understand him.”   “Bitsofhim,”saidHarry. “Bits...IjustwishI’dunderstood Dumbledoreas  much. But we’ll see. Come on—Ollivander now.”   Ron and Hermione looked bewildered but very impressed as they followed  him across the little landing and knocked upon the door opposite Bill and  Fleur’s.Aweak “Come in!” answered them.   The wandmaker was lying on the twin bed farthest from the window. He  had been held in the cellar for more than a year, and tortured, Harry knew,   
 on at least one occasion. He was emaciated, the bones of his face sticking out  sharply against the yellowish skin. His great silver eyes seemed vast in their  sunken sockets. The hands that layupon the blanket could have belonged to  a skeleton. Harry sat down on the empty bed, beside Ron and Hermione. The  rising sun was not visible here. The room faced the cliff-top garden and the  freshly dug grave.   “Mr. Ollivander, I’m sorry to disturb you,” Harry said.   “My dearboy,” Ollivander’s voicewas feeble.“You rescuedus,Ithoughtwe  woulddieinthatplace,I can neverthankyou...neverthankyou...enough.”   “We were glad to do it.”   Harry’s scar throbbed. He knew, he was certain, that there was hardly any  time left in which to beatVoldemort to his goal, or else to attempt to thwart  him.Hefelta flutterofpanic...yethehadmadehis decisionwhenhechoseto  speakto Griphook first.Feigningacalmhedidnotfeel,hegropedinthepouch  around his neckand took out the two halves of his broken wand.   “Mr. Ollivander,Ineed some help.”   “Anything. Anything.” Said the wandmaker weakly.   “Can you mend this? Is it possible?”   Ollivander held out a trembling hand, and Harry placed the two barely  connected halves in his palm.   “Holly and phoenix feather,” said Ollivander in a tremulous voice. “Eleven  inches. Nice and supple.”   “Yes,” said Harry. “Can you—?”   “No,” whispered Ollivander. “I am sorry, very sorry, but a wand that has  suffered this degreeof damage cannotbe repairedby any means thatIknow  of.”   Harry had been braced to hear it, but it was a blow nevertheless. He took  the wand halves backand replaced them in the pouch around his neck. Ollivander  stared at the place where the shattered wand had vanished, and did  not look away until Harry had taken from his pocket the two wands he had  brought from the Malfoys’.   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    “Can you identify these?” Harry asked.   The wandmaker took the first of the wands and held it close to his faded  eyes, rolling it between his knobble-knuckled fingers, flexing it slightly.   “Walnut and dragon heartstring,” he said. “Twelve-and-three-quarter inches.  Unyielding. This wand belonged to Bellatrix Lestrange.”   “And this one?”   Ollivander performed the same examination.   “Hawthorn and unicorn hair. Ten inches precisely. Reasonably springy.  This was the wand of Draco Malfoy.”   “Was?” repeated Harry. “Isn’t it still his?”   “Perhaps not. If you took it—”   “—I did—”   “—then it may be yours. Of course, the manner of taking matters. Much  also depends upon the wand itself. In general, however, where a wand has  been won, its allegiance will change.”   There was a silence in the room, except for the distant rushing of the sea.   “You talk about wands like they’ve got feelings,” said Harry, “like they can  think for themselves.”   “The wand chooses the wizard,” said Ollivander. “That much has always  been clear to those of us who have studied wandlore.”   “A person can still use a wand that hasn’t chosen them, though?” asked  Harry.   “Oh yes, if you are any wizard at all you will be able to channel your magic  through almost any instrument. The best results, however, must always come  where there is the strongest affinity between wizard and wand. These connections  are complex. An initial attraction, and then a mutual quest for experience,  the wand learning from the wizard, the wizard from the wand.”   The sea gushed forward and backward; it was a mournful sound.   “I took this wand from Draco Malfoy by force,” said Harry. “Can I use it  safely?”   “I think so. Subtle laws govern wand ownership, but the conquered wand   
 423   will usually bend its will to its new master.”   “So I should use this one?” said Ron, pulling Wormtail’s wand out of his  pocket and handing it to Ollivander.   “Chestnut and dragon heartstring. Nine-and-a-quarter inches. Brittle. I  was forcedto make this shortly aftermy kidnapping,forPeterPettigrew.Yes,  if you won it, it is more likely to do your bidding, and do it well, than another  wand.”   “And this holds true for all wands, does it?” asked Harry.   “I think so,” replied Ollivander,his protuberant eyes upon Harry’sface. “You  askdeepquestions,Mr.Potter.Wandloreisa complexand mysterious branch  of magic.”   “So, it isn’t necessary to kill the previous owner to take the possession of a  wand?” asked Harry.   Ollivander swallowed.   “Necessary?No,Ishouldnotsaythatitis necessaryto kill.”   “There are legends, though,” said Harry, and as his heart rate quickened,  the pain in his scar became more intense; he was sure that Voldemort has  decided to put his idea into action. “Legends about a wand—or wands—that  have been passed from hand to hand by murder.”   Ollivander turned pale. Against the snowy pillow he was light gray, and his  eyes were enormous, bloodshot, and bulging with what looked like fear.   “Only onewand,Ithink,”he whispered.   “AndYou-Know-Whois interestedinit, isn’t he?” asked Harry.   “I—how?” croaked Ollivander,and he looked appealingly at Ron and Hermione  for help. “How do you know this?”   “He wanted you to tell him how to overcome the connection between our  wands,” said Harry.   Ollivander looked terrified.   “He tortured me, you must understand that! The Cruciatus Curse, I-I had  nochoicebuttotellhimwhatIknew,whatIguessed!”   “I understand,”saidHarry.“Youtoldhimaboutthetwin cores?Yousaidhe   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    just had to borrow another wizard’s wand?”   Ollivander looked horrified, transfixed, by the amount that Harry knew. He  nodded slowly.   “But it didn’t work,” Harry went on. “Mine still beat the borrowed wand.  Do you know why that is?”   Ollivander shook his head slowly as he had just nodded.   “I had ... never heard of such a thing. Your wand performed something  unique that night. The connection of the twin cores is incredibly rare, yet why  yourwand wouldhave snapped the borrowedwand,Ido not know....   “We were talking about the other wand, the wand that changes hands by  murder. WhenYou-Know-Who realizedmywand had done something strange,  he came backand asked about that other wand, didn’t he?”   “How do you know this?”   Harry did not answer.   “Yes, he asked,” whispered Ollivander. “He wanted to know everything I  could tell him about thewand variously known as the Deathstick, theWandof  Destiny, or the ElderWand.”   Harry glanced sideways at Hermione. She looked flabbergasted.   “The Dark Lord,” said Ollivander in hushed and frightened tones, “had always  been happy with thewandImade him—yes and phoenix feather,thirteenand- a-half inches—until he discovered the connection of the twin cores. Now  he seeks another, more powerful wand, as the only wayto conquer yours.”   “But he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t already, that mine’s broken beyond repair,”  said Harry quietly.   “No!” said Hermione, sounding frightened. “He can’t know that, Harry, how  could he—?”   “Priori Incantatem,” said Harry. “We left your wand and the blackthorn  wand at the Malfoys’, Hermione. If they examine them properly, make them  re-create the spells they’ve cast lately, they’d see that yours broke mine, they’ll  see that you tried and failed to mend it, and they’ll realize that I’ve been using  the blackthorn one ever since.”   
 The little color she had regained since their arrival had drained from her  face. Ron gave Harry a reproachful look, and said, “Let’s not worry about that  now—”   But Mr. Ollivander intervened.   “The Dark Lord no longer seeks the ElderWand only for your destruction,  Mr.Potter.Heis determinedto possessit becausehe believesitwillmakehim  truly invulnerable.”   “And will it?”   “The owner of the ElderWand must always fear attack,” said Ollivander,  “buttheideaoftheDarkLordin possessionoftheDeathstickis,Imustadmit  ... formidable.”   Harry was suddenly reminded of how unsure, when they first met, of how  muchhe like Ollivander. Even now, having been tortured and imprisoned by  Voldemort,the ideaofthe DarkWizardin possessionof thiswand seemedto  enthrall him as much as it repulsed him.   “You—you really think this wand exists, then, Mr. Ollivander?” asked  Hermione.   “Oh yes,” said Ollivander. “Yes, it is perfectly possible to trace the wand’s  course through history. There are gaps, of, course, and long ones, where it  vanishes from view, temporarily lost or hidden; but always it resurfaces. It  has certain identifying characteristics that those who are learned in wandlore  recognize. There are written accounts, some of them obscure, thatIand other  wandmakers have made it our business to study. They have the ring of authenticity.”    “So you—you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a myth?” Hermione asked  hopefully.   “No,” said Ollivander. “Whether it needs to passby murder,Ido not know.  Its history is bloody, but that may be simply due to the fact that it is such a  desirable object, and arouses such passions in wizards. Immensely powerful,  dangerous in the wrong hands, and an object of incredible fascination to all of  us who study the power of wands.”   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    “Mr. Ollivander,” said Harry, “you told You-Know-Who that Gregorovitch  had the ElderWand, didn’t you?”   Ollivander turned, if possible, even paler. He looked ghostly as he gulped.   “But how—how do you—?”   “Never mind howI know it,” said Harry, closing his eyes momentarily as  his scar burned and he saw, for mere seconds, a vision of the main street in  Hogsmeade, still dark, becauseitwas so much farther north. “You toldYouKnow- Who that Gregorovitchhad the wand?”   “Itwasa rumor,” whispered Ollivander. “Arumor, years and years ago, long  before you were born I believe Gregorovitch himself started it. You can see  how good it would be for business; that he was studying and duplicating the  qualitiesof the ElderWand!”   “Yes, I can see that,” said Harry. He stood up. “Mr. Ollivander, one last  thing, and then we’ll let you get some rest. What do you know about the  Deathly Hallows?”   “The—the what?” asked the wandmaker, looking utterly bewildered.   “The Deathly Hallows.”   “I’m afraidIdon’t know what you’re talking about. Is this still something  to do with wands?”   Harry looked into the sunken face and believed that Ollivander was not  acting. He did not know about the Hallows.   “Thank you,” said Harry. “Thank you very much. We’ll leave you to get  some rest now.”   Ollivander looked stricken.   “Hewas torturingme!” he gasped. “The Cruciatus Curse ...youhaveno  idea....”   “I do,” said Harry, “I really do. Please get some rest. Thank you for telling  me all of this.”   He led Ron and Hermione down the staircase. Harry caught glimpses of  Bill, Fleur, Luna, and Dean sitting at the table in the kitchen, cups of tea in  front of them. They all looked up at Harry as he appeared in the doorway, but   
 he merely nodded to them and continuedinto the garden, Ron and Hermione  behind him. The reddish mound of earth that covered Dobby lay ahead, and  Harrywalkedbacktoit,asthepaininhisheadbuiltmoreandmore powerfully.  Itwasahugeeffortnowtoclosedownthe visionsthatwereforcing themselves  upon him, but he knew that he would have to resist only a little longer. He  would yield very soon, because he needed to know that his theory was right.  He must make only one more short effort, so that he could explain to Ron and  Hermione.   “Gregorovitch had the Elder Wand a long time ago,” he said, “I saw YouKnow- Who trying to find him. When he tracked him down, he found that  Gregorovitchdidn’t have it anymore: It was stolen from him by Grindelwald.  How Grindelwaldfoundoutthat Gregorovitchhadit,Idon’t know—butifGregorovitch  was stupid enough to spread the rumor, it can’t have been that difficult.”    Voldemort was at the gates of Hogwarts; Harry could see him standing  there, and see too the lamp bobbing in the pre-dawn, coming closer and closer.   “And Grindelwald used the Elder Wand to become powerful. And at the  height of his power, when Dumbledore knew he was the only one who could  stophim,he dueled Grindelwaldandbeathim,andhetookthe ElderWand.”   “Dumbledore had the ElderWand?” said Ron. “But then—whereisit now?”   “At Hogwarts,” said Harry, fighting to remain with them in the cliff-top garden.    “But then, let’s go!” said Ron urgently. “Harry, let’s go and get it before he  does!”   “It’s too late for that,” said Harry. He could not help himself, but clutched  his head, trying to help it resist. “He knows where it is. He’s there now.”   “Harry!” Ron said furiously. “How long have you known this—why have  we been wasting time? Why did you talk to Griphook first? We could have  gone—we could still go—”   “No,” said Harry, and he sank to his knees in the grass. “Hermione’s right.  Dumbledore didn’twantmetohaveit.He didn’twantmetotakeit.Hewanted   
 CHAPTER  24.  THE  WANDMAKER    me to get the Horcruxes.”   “The unbeatable wand, Harry!” moaned Ron.   “I’mnot supposedto...I’m supposedtogetthe Horcruxes....”   And now everything was cool and dark: The sun was barely visible over the  horizon as he glided alongside Snape, up through the grounds toward the lake.   “I shall join you in the castle shortly,” he said in his high, cold voice. “Leave  me now.”   Snape bowed and set off backup the path, his black cloak billowing behind  him. Harry walked slowly, waiting for Snape’s figure to disappear. It would  not do for Snape, or indeed anyone else, to see where he was going. But there  wereno lightsinthe castle windows,andhe could conceal himself ...andina  second he had cast upon himself a Disillusionment Charm that hid him even  from his own eyes.   And he walked on, around the edge of the lake, taking in the outlines of the  beloved castle, his first kingdom, his birthright....   And here it was, beside the lake, reflected in the dark waters. The white  marble tomb, an unnecessary blot on the familiar landscape. He felt again that  rush of controlled euphoria, that heady sense of purpose in destruction. He  raised the old yew wand: How fitting that this would be its last great act.   The tomb split open from head to foot. The shrouded figure was as long as  thin as it had been in life. He raised the wand again.   The wrappings fell open. The facewas translucent, pale,sunken, yet almost  perfectly preserved. They had left his spectacles on the crooked nose: He felt  amused derision. Dumbledore’s hands were folded upon his chest, and there it  lay, clutched beneath them, buried with him.   Had the old fool imagined that marble or death would protect the wand?  Had he thought that the Dark Lord would be scared to violate his tomb? The  spiderlike hand swooped and pulled the wand from Dumbledore’s grasp, and  as he took it, a shower of sparks flew from its tip, sparkling over the corpse of  its last owner, ready to serve a new master at last.   
 Chapter  25    Shell  Cottage    B B ill and Fleur’s cottage stood alone onacliff overlooking the sea, its  walls embedded with shells and whitewashed. It was a lonely and  beautiful place. Wherever Harry went inside the tiny cottage or its  garden, he could hear the constant ebb and flow of the sea, like the breathing of  some great, slumbering creature. He spent muchof the next few days making  excuses to escape the crowded cottage, craving the cliff-top view of open sky  and wide, empty sea, and the feel of cold, salty wind on his face.   The enormityofhis decisionnotto raceVoldemorttothewand still scared  Harry. He could not remember, ever before, choosing not to act. He was full of  doubts, doubts that Ron could not help voicing whenever they were together.   “What if Dumbledore wanted us to work out the symbol in time to get the  wand?” “What if working out what the symbol meant made you ‘worthy’ to get  the Hallows?” “Harry, if that really is the Elder Wand, how the hell are we  supposed to finish offYou-Know-Who?”   Harry had no answers: There were moments when he wondered whether it  had been outright madness not to try to preventVoldemort breaking open the  tomb. He could not even explain satisfactorily why he had decided against it:  Every time he tried to reconstruct the internal arguments that had led to his  decision, they sounded feebler to him.   429   
 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    The odd thing was that Hermione’s support made him feel just as confused  asRon’s doubts.Now forcedtoacceptthattheElderWandwasreal,shemaintainedthatitwasanevilobject, andthatthewayVoldemorthadtaken possession  of it was repellent, not to be considered.   “You could never have done that, Harry,” she said again and again. “You  couldn’t have broken into Dumbledore’s grave.”   But the idea of Dumbledore’s corpse frightened Harry muchless than the  possibility that he might have misunderstood the living Dumbledore’s intentions.  He felt that he was still groping in the dark; he had chosen his path but  kept looking back, wondering whether he had misread the signs, whether he  shouldnothavetakentheotherway.Fromtimetotime,angerat Dumbledore  crashed over him again, powerful as the waves slamming themselves against  the cliff beneath the cottage, anger that Dumbledore had not explained before  he died.   “But is he dead?” said Ron, three days after they had arrived at the cottage.  Harry had been staring out over the wall that separated the cottage garden  from the cliff when Ron and Hermione had found him; he wished they had not,  having no wish to join in with their argument.   “Yes, he is. Ron, please don’t start that again!”   “Look at the facts, Hermione,” said Ron, speaking across Harry, who continued  to gaze at the horizon. “The solve doe. The sword. The eye Harry saw in  the mirror—”   “Harry admits he could have imagined the eye! Don’t you, Harry?”   “I could have,” said Harry without looking at her.   “But you don’t thing you did, do you?” asked Ron.   “No,Idon’t,” said Harry.   “There you go!” said Ron quickly, before Hermione could carry on. “If it  wasn’t Dumbledore,explain how Dobby knew we were in the cellar,Hermione?”   “I can’t—but can you explain how Dumbledore sent him to us if he’s lying  in a tomb at Hogwarts?” “I dunno, it could’ve been his ghost!”   “Dumbledore wouldn’t come back as a ghost,” said Harry. There was little   
 about Dumbledorehewas sureof now, buthe knew that much. “He wouldhave  gone on.”   “What d’you mean, ’gone on’?” asked Ron, but before Harry could sayany  more, a voice behind them said, “’Arry?”   Fleur had come out of the cottage, her long silver hair flying in the breeze.   “’Arry, Grip’ook would like to speak to you. ’E eez in ze smallest bedroom,  ’e says ’e does not want to be over’eard.”   Her dislike of the goblin sending her to deliver messages was clear; she  looked irritable as she walked backaround the house.   Griphook was waiting for them, as Fleur had said, in the tiniest of the cottage’s  three bedrooms, in which Hermione and Luna slept by night. He had  drawn the red cotton curtains against the bright, cloudy sky, which gave the  room a fiery glow at odds with the rest of the airy, light cottage.   “I have reached my decision, Harry Potter,” said the goblin, who was sitting  cross-legged in a low chair, drumming its arms with his spindly fingers.  “Though the goblinsof Gringotts will considerit base treachery,Ihave decided  to help you—”   “That’s great!” said Harry, relief surging through him. “Griphook, thank  you, we’re really—”   “—in return,” said the goblin firmly, “for payment.”   Slightly taken aback, Harry hesitated.   “How muchdo you want? I’ve got gold.”   “Not gold,” said Griphook. “I have gold.”   His blackeyes glittered; there were no whites to his eyes.   “I want the sword. The sword of Godric Gryffindor.”   Harry’s spirits plummeted.   “You can’t have that,” he said. “I’m sorry.”   “Then,” said the goblin softly, “we have a problem.”   “We can give you something else,” said Ron eagerly. “I’ll bet the Lestranges  have got loads of stuff, you can take your pick once we get into the vault.”   He had said the wrong thing. Griphook flushed angrily.   
 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    “Iamnotathief,boy!I amnottryingto procure treasurestowhichIhave  no right!”   “The sword’s ours—”   “itisnot,”saidthe goblin.“We’re Gryffindors,anditwas Godric Gryffindor’s—  ”   “And beforeitwas Gryffindor’s, whosewas it?” demandedthe goblin, sitting  up straight.   “No one’s,” said Ron. “It was made for him, wasn’t it?”   “No!” cried the goblin, bristling with anger as he pointed a long finger at  Ron. “Wizarding arrogance again! That swordwas Ragnuk theFirst’s, taken  from him by Godric Gryffindor! It is a lost treasure, a masterpiece of goblin- work! It belongs with the goblins. The sword is the price of my hire, take it or  leave it!”   Griphook glared at them. Harry glanced at the other two, then said, “We  need to discuss this, Griphook, if that’s all right. Could you give us a few  minutes?”   The goblin nodded, looking sour.   Downstairs in the empty sitting room, Harry walked to the fireplace, brow  furrowed, trying to think what to do. Behind him, Ron said, “He’s having a  laugh.We can’t let himhave that sword.”   “It is true?” Harry asked Hermione. “Was the sword stolen by Gryffindor?”   “I don’t know,” she said hopelessly. “Wizarding history often skates over  what the wizards have done to other magical races, but there’s no account that  Iknow of that says Gryffindor stole the sword.”   “It’ll be one of those goblin stories,” said Ron, “about how the wizards are  always trying to get one over on them. I suppose we should think ourselves  lucky he hasn’t asked for one of our wands.”   “Goblins have got good reason to dislike wizards, Ron.” said Hermione.  “They’ve been treated brutally in the past.”   “Goblins aren’t exactly fluffy little bunnies, though, are they?” said Ron.  “They’ve killed plenty of us. They’ve fought dirty too.”   
 “But arguing with Griphook about whose race is most underhanded and  violent isn’t going to make him more likely to help us, is it?”   There was a pause while they tried to think of a wayaround the problem.  Harry looked out of the window at Dobby’s grave. Luna was arranging sea  lavender in a jam jar beside the headstone.   “Okay,” said Ron, and Harry turned back to face him, “how’s this? We tell  Griphook we need the sword until we get inside the vault and then he can have  it. There’sa fakein these, isn’t there?We switchthem, and give him the fake.”   “Ron, he’dknow the difference better than we would!” said Hermione. “He’s  the only one who realized there had been a swap!”   “Yeah, but we could scarper before he realizes—”   He quailed beneath the look Hermione was giving him.   “That,” she said quietly, “is despicable. Ask for his help, then double-cross  him? And you wonder why goblins don’t like wizards, Ron?”   Ron’s ears had turned red.   “All right, all right! It was the only thing I could think of! What’s your  solution, then?”   “We need to offer him something else, something just as valuable.”   “Brilliant, I’ll go and get one of our ancient goblin-made swords and you can  gift wrap it.”   Silence fell between them again. Harry was sure that the goblin would  accept nothing but the sword, even if they had something as valuable to offer  him.Yet the swordwas their one,indispensable weapon against the Horcruxes.   He closed his eyes for a moment or two and listened to the rush of the  sea. The idea that Gryffindor might have stolen the sword was unpleasant to  him: He had always been proud to be a Gryffindor; Gryffindor had been the  champion of Muggle-borns, the wizard who had clashed with the pureblood- loving Slytherin....   “Maybe he’s lying,” Harry said, opening his eyes again. “Griphook. Maybe  Gryffindor didn’t take the sword. How do we know the goblin version of history’s  right?”   
 434 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    “Doesit makea difference?” asked Hermione. “Changes howI feel about  it,” said Harry.   He took a deep breath. ’   ’We’ll tell him he can have the sword after he’s helped us get into that  vault—but we’ll be careful to avoid telling him exactly when he can have it.”   Agrin spread slowly across Ron’s face. Hermione, however, looked alarmed.   “Harry, we can’t—”   “He can have it,” Harry went on, “after we’ve used it on all of the Horcruxes.  I’ll make sure he gets it then. I’ll keep my word.”   “But that could be years!” said Hermione. “I know that, but he needn’t. I  won’tbe lying...really.”   Harry met her eyes with a mixture of defiance and shame. He remembered  the words that had been engraved over the gatewayto Nurmengard: FOR THE  GREATER GOOD. He pushed the idea away. What choice did they have?   “I don’t like it,” said Hermione.   “Nor do I, much,” Harry admitted.   “Well, I think it’s genius,” said Ron, standing up again. “Let’s go and tell  him.”   Back in the smallest bedroom, Harry made the offer, careful to phrase it  so as not to give any definite time for the handover of the sword. Hermione  frowned at the floor while he was speaking; he felt irritated at her, afraid that  she might give the game away. However, Griphook had eyes for nobody but  Harry.   “Ihaveyourword,HarryPotter,thatyouwillgivemetheswordof Gryffindor  ifIhelp you?”   “Yes,” said Harry.   “Then shake,” said the goblin, holding out his hand.   Harry took it and shook. He wondered whether those black eyes saw any  misgivings in his own. Then Griphook relinquished him, clapped his hands  together, and said, “So.We begin!”   It was like planning to break into the Ministry all over again. They set   
 tled to work in the smallest bedroom, which was kept, according to Griphook’s  preference, in semidarkness.   “I have visited the Lestranges’ vault only once,” Griphook told them, “on  the occasionI wastoldtoplaceinsideitthefalsesword.Itisoneofthemost  ancientchambers. The oldestWizarding families store their treasures at the  deepest level, where the vaults are largest and best protected....”   They remained shut in the cupboardlike room for hours at a time. Slowly  the days stretched into weeks. There was problem after problem to overcome,  not leastof which was that their storeofPolyjuicePotionwas greatly depleted.   “There’s really only enough left for one of us,” said Hermione, tilting the  thickmudlike potion against the lamplight.   “That’llbeenough,”saidHarry,whowasexaminingGriphook’s hand-drawn  map of the deepest passageways.   The other inhabitants of Shell Cottage could hardly fail to notice that something  was going on now that Harry, Ron and Hermione only emerged for mealtimes.  Nobody asked questions, although Harry often felt Bill’s eyes on the  three of them at the table, thoughtful, concerned.   The longer they spent together, the more Harry realized that he did not  muchlike the goblin. Griphook was unexpectedly bloodthirsty, laughed at the  idea of pain in lesser creatures and seemed to relish the possibility that they  might have to hurt other wizards to reachthe Lestranges’ vault. Harry could  tell that his distaste was shared by the other two, but they did not discuss it.  They needed Griphook.   The goblin ate only grudgingly with the rest of them. Even after his legs had  mended, he continued to request trays of food in his room, like the still—frail  Ollivander, until Bill (following an angry outburst from Fleur) went upstairs to  tell him that the arrangement could not continue. Thereafter Griphook joined  them at the overcrowded table, although he refused to eat the same food, insisting,  instead, on lumps of raw meat, roots, and various fungi.   Harry felt responsible: It was, after all, he who had insisted that the goblin  remain at Shell Cottage so that he could question him; his fault that the whole   
 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    Weasley family had been driven into hiding, that Bill,Fred, George, and Mr.  Weasley could no longer work.   “I’m sorry,” he told Fleur, one blustery April evening as he helped her prepare  dinner. “I never meant you to have to deal with all of this.”   She had just set some knives to work, chipping up steaks for Griphook and  Bill, who had preferred his meat bloody ever since he had been attacked by  Greyback. While the knives sliced behind her, her somewhat irritable expression  softened.   “’Arry, you savedmy sister’s life,Ido not forget.”   This was not, strictly speaking, true, but Harry decided against reminding  her that Gabrielle had never been in real danger.   “Anyway,” Fleur went on, pointing her want at a pot of sauce on the stove,  whichbegan to bubble at once, “Mr. Ollivander leaves for Muriel’s zis evening.  Zat will make zings easier. Ze goblin,” she scowled a little at the mention of  him, “can move downstairs, and you, Ron, and Dean can take zat room.”   “We don’t mind sleeping in the living room,” said Harry, who knew that  Griphook would think poorly of having to sleep on the sofa; keeping Griphook  happywas essential to theirplans. “Don’t worry about us.” And when she tried  to protest he went on, “We’ll be off your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I.  We won’t need to be here muchlonger.”   “But, what do you mean?” she said, frowning at him, her wand pointing at  the casserole dish now suspended in midair. “Of course you must not leave, you  are safe ’ere!”   She looked ratherlikeMrs.Weasleyasshesaidit,andhewasgladthatthe  back door opened at that moment. Luna and Dean entered, their hair damp  from the rain outside and their arms full of driftwood.   “...and tiny little ears,” Lunawas saying, “a bit like hippo’s, Daddy says,  only purple and hairy. And if you want to call them, you have to hum; they  preferawaltz, nothing too fast....”   Looking uncomfortable, Dean shrugged at Harry as he passed, following  Luna into the combined dining and sitting room where Ron and Hermione were   
 laying the dinner table. Seizing the chance to escape Fleur’s questions, Harry  grabbed two jugs of pumpkin juice and followed them.   “...and if you ever come to our house I’ll be able to show you the horn,  Daddy wrotetome aboutitbutIhaven’t seenityet,becausethe Death Eaters  tookmefromtheHogwartsExpressandInevergothomefor Christmas,”Luna  was saying, as she and Dean relit the fire.   “Luna, we told you,” Hermione called over to her. “That horn exploded. It  came from an Erumpent, not a Crumple-Horned Snorkack—”   “No,itwas definitelya Snorkackhorn,” said Luna serenely, “Daddy toldme.  It will probably have re–formed by now, they mend themselves, you know.”   Hermione shook her headand continued laying down forks as Bill appeared,  leadingMr. Ollivander down the stairs. Thewandmaker still looked exceptionally  frail, and he clung to Bill’s arm as the latter supported him, carrying a  large suitcase.   “I’m going to miss you, Mr. Ollivander,” said Luna, approaching the old  man.   “And I you, my dear,” said Ollivander, patting her on the shoulder. “You  were an inexpressible comfort to me in that terrible place.”   “So, au revoir,Mr. Ollivander,” said Fleur, kissing him on bothcheeks. “And  Iwonder whezzer you could oblige me by delivering a package to Bill’s Auntie  Muriel!?I never returned ’er tiara.”   “Itwillbeanhonor,”said Ollivanderwithalittlebow,“theveryleastI can  do in return for your generous hospitality.”   Fleur drew out a worn velvet case, which she opened to show the wand- maker. The tiara sat glittering and twinkling in the light from the low-hanging  lamp.   “Moonstones and diamonds,” said Griphook, who had sidled into the room  without Harry noticing. “Madeby goblins,Ithink?”   “And paid for by wizards,” said Bill quietly, and the goblin shot him a look  that was both furtive and challenging.   A strong wind gusted against the cottage windows as Bill and Ollivander   
 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    set off into the night. The rest of them squeezed in around the table; elbow  to elbow and with barely enough room to move, they started to eat. The fire  crackledandpoppedinthegratebesidethem. Fleur,Harrynoticed,wasmerely  playing with her food; she glanced at the window every few minutes; however,  Bill returned before they had finished their first course, his long hair tangled  by the wind.   “Everything’s fine,” he told Fleur. “Ollivander settled in, Mum and Dad say  hello. Ginny sends you all her love, Fred and George are driving Muriel up  the wall, they’re still operating an Owl-Order business out of her back room.  It cheered her up to have her tiara back, though. She said she thought we’d  stolen it.”   “Ah, she eez charmante, your aunt,” said Fleur crossly, waving her wand  and causing the dirty plates to rise and form a stack in midair. She caught  them and marched out of the room.   “Daddy’s made a tiara,” piped up Luna, “Well, more of a crown, really.”   RoncaughtHarry’seyeand grinned;Harryknewthathewas remembering  the ludicrous headdress they had seen on their visit to Xenophilius.   “Yes, he’s trying to re-create the lost diadem of Ravenclaw. He thinks he’s  identified most of the main elements now. Adding the billywig wings really  made a difference—”   Therewasabang on the front door. Everyone’shead turned toward it. Fleur  came running out of the kitchen, looking frightened; Bill jumped to his feed, his  wand pointing at the door; Harry, Ron, and Hermione did the same. Silently  Griphook slipped beneath the table, out of sight.   “Who is it?” Bill called.   “ItisI, RemusJohn Lupin!” calleda voice over the howling wind. Harry  experienced a thrill of fear; what had happened? “I am a werewolf, married to  NymphadoraTonks, and you, the Secret-Keeper of Shell Cottage, told me the  address and bade me come in an emergency!”   “Lupin,” muttered Bill, and he ran to the door and wrenched it open.   Lupin fell over the threshold. He was white-faced, wrapped in a traveling   
 cloak, his graying hair windswept. He straightened up, looked around the  room, making sureofwhowas there, then cried aloud, “It’saboy!We’ve named  himTed, after Dora’s father!”   Hermione shrieked.   “Wha—?Tonks—Tonks has had the baby?”   “Yes, yes, she’s had the baby!” shouted Lupin. All around the table came  cries of delight, sighs of relief: Hermione and Fleur both squealed, “Congratulations!”  and Ron said, “Blimey, a baby!” as if he had never heard of such a  thing before.   “Yes—yes—a boy,” said Lupin again, who seemed dazed by his own happiness.  He strode around the table and hugged Harry; the scene in the basement  of Grimmauld Place might never have happened.   “You’ll be godfather?” he said as he released Harry. “M-me?” stammered  Harry.   “You, yes, of course—Dora quite agrees, no one better—”   “I—yeah—blimey—”   Harry felt overwhelmed, astonished, delighted; now Bill was hurrying to  fetchwine, and Fleur was persuading Lupin to join them for a drink.   “Ican’tstaylong,Imustgetback,”saidLupin, beaming aroundatthemall:  He looked years younger than Harry had ever seen him. “Thank you, thank  you, Bill”   Bill had soon filled all of their goblets, they stood and raised them high in a  toast.   “ToTeddy Remus Lupin,” said Lupin,“a great wizardin the making!”   “’Oo does ’e look like?” Fleur inquired.   “I think he looks like Dora, but she thinks he is like me. Not muchhair. It  lookedblackwhenhewasborn,butIswearit’sturnedgingerinthehoursince.  Probably blondby the timeI get back. Andromeda saysTonks’s hair started  changing color the daythat she was born.” He drained his goblet. “Oh, go on  then, just one more,” he added, beaming, as Bill made to fill it again.   The wind buffeted the little cottage and the fire leapt and crackled, and   
 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    Bill was soon opening another bottle of wine. Lupin’s news seemed to have  taken them out of themselves, removed them for a while from their state of  siege: Tidings of new life were exhilarating. Only the goblin seemed untouched  by the suddenly festive atmosphere, and after a while he slunk back to the  bedroom he now occupied alone. Harry thought he was the only one who had  noticed this, until he saw Bill’s eyes following the goblin up the stairs.   “No...no...Ireallymustgetback,”saidLupinatlast,decliningyet another  goblet of wine. He got to his feet and pulled his traveling cloak back around  himself.   “Good-bye, good-bye—I’ll try and bring some pictures in a few day’s time—  they’ll all be so glad to know that I’ve seen you—” He fastened his cloak and  made his farewells, hugging the women and grasping hands with the men,  then, still beaming, returned into the wild night.   “Godfather,Harry!” said Bill as theywalked into the kitchen together, helping  clear the table. “Areal honor! Congratulations!”   As Harry set down the empty goblets he was carrying, Bill pulled the door  behind him closed, shutting out the still-voluble voices of the others, who were  continuing to celebrate even in Lupin’s absence.   “I wanted a private word, actually, Harry. It hasn’t been easy to get an  opportunity with the cottage this full of people.”   Bill hesitated.   “Harry, you’re planning something with Griphook.”   It was a statement, not a question, and Harry did not bother to deny it. He  merely looked at Bill, waiting.   “I know goblins,” said Bill. “I’ve worked for Gringotts ever sinceIleft Hog- warts. As far as there can be friendship between wizards and goblins,Ihave  goblin friends—or,atleast,goblinsIknowwell,andlike.”Again,Bill hesitated.   “Harry, whatdo youwant from Griphook, and whathave you promised him  in return?”   “I can’t tell you that,” said Harry. “Sorry, Bill.”   The kitchen door opened behind them; Fleur was trying to bring through   
 more empty goblets.   “Wait,” Bill told her, “Just a moment.”   She backed out and he closed the door again.   “Then I have to say this,” Bill went on. “If you have struck any kind of  bargain with Griphook, and most particularly if that bargain involves treasure,  you must be exceptionally careful. Goblin notions of ownership, payment, and  repayment are not the same as human ones.”   Harryfeltaslightsquirmof discomfort,asthoughasmallsnakehad stirred  inside him.   “What do you mean?” he asked.   “We are talking about a different breed of being,” said Bill. “Dealings between  wizards and goblins have been fraught for centuries—but you’ll know  all that from History of Magic. There has been fault on both sides, I would  never claim that wizards have been innocent. However, there is a belief among  some goblins, and those at Gringotts are perhaps most prone to it, that wizards  cannot be trusted in matters of gold and treasure, that they have no respect for  goblin ownership.”   “I respect—” Harry began, but Bill shook his head.   “You don’t understand, Harry, nobody could understand unless they have  lived with goblins.Toa goblin, the rightful and true masterof any objectis the  maker, not the purchaser. All goblin made objects are, in goblin eyes, rightfully  theirs.”   “But it was bought—”   “—then they would consider it rented by the one who had paid the money.  They have, however, great difficulty with the idea of goblin-made objects passing  from wizard to wizard. You saw Griphook’s face when the tiara passed  under his eyes. He disapproves. I believe he thinks, as do the fiercest of his  kind, that it ought to have been returnedto the goblins once the original purchaser  died. They consider our habit of keeping goblin-made objects, passing  them from wizard to wizard without further payment, little more than theft.”   Harry had an ominous feeling now; he wondered whether Bill guessed more   
 CHAPTER  25.  SHELL  COTTAGE    than he was letting on.   “AllIam saying,” said Bill, setting his hand on the door backinto the sitting  room, “is to be very careful what you promise goblins, Harry. It would be less  dangerous to break into Gringotts than to renege on a promise to a goblin.”   “Right,” said Harry as Bill opened the door, “yeah. Thanks. I’ll bear that in  mind.” As he followed Bill backto the others a wry thought came to him, born  no doubt of the wine he had drunk. He seemed set on course to become just as  recklessa godfathertoTeddyLupinas SiriusBlackhadbeentohim.   
 Chapter  26    Gringotts    T T heir plans were made, their preparations complete; in the smallest  bedroom a single long, coarse blackhair (plucked from the sweater  HermionehadbeenwearingatMalfoyManor)laycurledinasmall  glass phial on the mantelpiece.   “And you’ll be using her actual wand,” said Harry, nodding toward the walnutwand,  “soI reckon you’llbe pretty convincing.”   Hermione looked frightened that the wand might sting or bit her as she  picked it up.   “I hate that thing,” she said in a low voice. “I really hate it. It feels all  wrong,it doesn’twork properlyforme...It’slikeabitof her.”   Harry could not help but remember how Hermione has dismissed his loathing  of the blackthornwand, insisting thathewas imagining things whenit did not  work as well as his own, telling him to simply practice. He chose not to repeat  her own advice backto her, however, the eve of their attempted assault on  Gringotts felt like the wrong moment to antagonize her.   “It’llprobablyhelpyougetincharacter,though,”saidRon. “thinkwhatthat  wand’s done!”   “But that’s my point!” said Hermione. “This is the wand that tortured  Neville’s mum and dad, and who knows how many other people? This is the   443   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    wand that killed Sirius!”   Harryhadnotthoughtofthat:Helookeddownatthewandandwas visited  byabrutalurgetosnapit,tosliceitinhalfwith Gryffindor’ssword,whichwas  propped against the wall beside him.   “I miss my wand,” Hermione said miserably. “I wish Mr. Ollivander could  have made me another one too.”   Mr. Ollivander had sent Luna a new wand that morning. She was out on  thebacklawnatthat moment, testingits capabilitiesinthelate afternoon sun.  Dean, who had lost his wand to the Snatchers, was watching rather gloomily.   Harry looked down at the hawthorn wand that had once belonged to Draco  Malfoy. He had been surprised, but pleased to discover that it worked for him at  least as well as Hermione’s had done. Remembering what Ollivander had told  themofthe secret workingsofwands,Harry thoughtheknewwhat Hermione’s  problem was: She had not won the walnut wand’s allegiance by taking it personally  from Bellatrix.   The door of the bedroom opened and Griphook entered. Harry reached instinctively  for the hilt of the sword and drew it close to him, but regretted his  action at once. He could tell that the goblin had noticed. Seeking to gloss over  the sticky moment, he said, “We’ve just been checking the last-minute stuff,  Griphook. We’ve told Bill and Fleur we’re leaving tomorrow, and we’ve told  them not to get up to see us off.”   They had been firm on this point, because Hermione would need to transform  in Bellatrix before they left, and the less that Bill and Fleur knew or  suspected about what they were about to do, the better. They had also explainedthatthey  wouldnotbe returning.AstheyhadlostPerkin’sold tenton  the night that the Snatcher’s caught them, Bill had lent them another one. It  was now packed inside the beaded bag, which, Harry was impressed to learn,  Hermionehad protected fromthe Snatchersbythe simple expedientof stuffing  it down her sock.   Though he would miss Bill, Fleur,Luna, and Dean, not to mention the home  comforts they had enjoyed over the last few weeks, Harry was looking forward   
 to escaping the confinement of Shell Cottage. He was tired of trying to make  sure that they were not overheard, tired of being shut in the tiny, dark bedroom.  Most of all, he longed to be rid of Griphook. However, precisely how  and when they were to part from the goblin without handing over Gryffindor’s  sword remainedaquestiontowhichHarryhadno answer.Ithadbeenimpossible  to decide how they were going to do it, because the goblin rarely left Harry,  Ron, and Hermione alone together for more than five minutes at a time: “He  could give my mother lessons,” growled Ron, as the goblin’s long fingers kept  appearing around the edgesof doors.With Bill’swarningin mind, Harry could  not help suspecting that Griphook was on the watchfor possible skulduggery.  Hermione disapproved so heartily of the planned double-cross that Harry had  given up attempting to pickher brains on how best to do it: Ron, on the rare  occasions that they had been able to snatch a few Griphook-free moments, had  come up with nothing better than “We’ll just have to wing it, mate.”   Harry slept badly that night. Lying away in the early hours, he thought  back to the wayhe had felt the night before they had infiltrated the Ministry  of Magic and remembereda determination, almost an excitement. Nowhewas  experiencing jolts of anxiety nagging doubts: He could not shake off the fear  that it was all going to go wrong. He kept telling himself that their plan was  good, that Griphook knew what they were facing, that they were well-prepared  for all the difficulties they were likely to encounter, yet still he felt uneasy.  Once or twice he heard Ron stir and was sure that he too was awake, but they  were sharing the sitting room with Dean, so Harry did not speak.   Itwasareliefwhensixo’clockarrivedandtheycouldslipoutoftheirsleepingbags, dressinthe semidarkness,thencreepoutintothegarden,wherethey  wereto meet Hermioneand Griphook.Thedawnwaschilly,but therewas little  windnowthatitwasMay.Harry lookedupatthe starsstill glimmeringpalely  in the dark sky and listened to the sea washing backward and forward against  the cliff: He was going to miss the sound.   Small green shoots were forcing their way up through the red earth of  Dobby’s grave now, in a year’s time the mound would be covered in flowers.   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    The white stone that bore the elf’s name had already acquired a weathered  look. He realized now that they could hardly have laid Dobby to rest in a  more beautiful place, but Harry ached with sadness to think of leaving him  behind. Looking down on the grave, he wondered yet again how the elf had  known where to come to rescue them. His fingers moved absentmindedly to  the little pouchstill strung around his neck, thorough whichhe could feel the  jagged mirror fragment in whichhe had been sure he had seen Dumbledore’s  eye. Then the sound of a door opening made him look around.   Bellatrix Lestrangewas striding acrossthelawntowardthem, accompanied  by Griphook. As she walked, she was tucking the small, beaded bag into the  inside pocket of another set of the old robes they had taken from Grimmauld  Place. Though Harry knew perfectly well thatitwas really Hermione,he could  not suppress a shiver of loathing. She was taller than he was, her long black  hair rippling down her back, her heavily lidded eyes disdainful as they rested  upon him; but then she spoke, and he heard Hermione through Bellatrix’s low  voice.   “She tasted disgusting, worse than Gurdyroots! Okay, Ron, come here soI  cando you....”   “right, but remember,Idon’t like the beard too long”   “Oh, for heaven’s sake, this isn’t about looking handsome”   “It’snotthat,itgetsintheway!ButIlikedmynoseabit shorter,tryand  do it the wayyou did last time.”   Hermione sighed and set to work, muttering under her breath as she transformed  various aspects of Ron’s appearance. He was to be given a completely  fake identity, and they were trusting to the malevolent aura cast by Bellatrix  to protect him. Meanwhile Harry and Griphook were to be concealed under the  Invisibility Cloak.   “There,” said Hermione, “how does he look, Harry?”   It was just not possible to discern Ron under his disguise, but only, Harry  thought because he knew him so well. Ron’s hair was now long and wavy; he  had a thick brown beard and mustache, no freckles, a short, broad nose, and   
 heavy eyebrows.   “Well, he’s not my type, but he’ll do,” said Harry. “Shall we go, then?”   All three of them glanced backat Shell Cottage, lying dark and silent under  the fading stars, then turned and began to walk toward the point, just beyond  the boundarywall, where theFidelius Chard stoppedworking and they would  be able to Disapparate. Once past the gate, Griphook spoke.   “I shouldclimbup now, HarryPotter,Ithink?”   Harry bent down and the goblin clambered onto his back, his hands linked  on front of Harry’s throat. He was not heavy, but Harry disliked the feeling  of the goblin and the surprising strength with which he clung on. Hermione  pulled the Invisibility Cloak out of the beaded bag and threw it over them both.   “Perfect,” she said, bending down to checkHarry’s feet. “I can’t see a thing.  Let’s go.”   Harry turned on the spot, with Griphook on his shoulders, concentrating  with all his might on the Leaky Cauldron, the inn that was the entrance to  Diagon Alley. The goblinclung even tighter as they moved intothe compressing  darkness, and seconds later Harry’s feet found pavement and he opened  his eyes on Charing Cross Road. Muggles bustled past wearing the hangdog  expressions of early morning, quite unconscious of the little inn’s existence.   The bar of the Leaky Cauldron was nearly deserted. Ton, the stooped and  toothless landlord, was polishing glasses behind the bar counter; a couple of  warlockshavingamuttered conversationinthefar corner glancedat Hermione  and drew backinto the shadows.   “Madam Lestrange,” murmuredTom, and as Hermione paused he inclined  his head subserviently.   “Good morning,” said Hermione, and as Harry crept past, still carrying  Griphook piggybackunder the Cloak,he sawTom look surprised.   “Too polite,” Harry whispered in Hermione’s ear as they passed out of the  Inn into the tiny backyard. “You need to treat people like they’re scum!”   “Okay, okay!”   Hermione drew out Bellatrix’s wand and rapped a brickin the nondescript   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    wall in front of them. At once the bricks began to whirl and spin: A hole  appeared in the middle of them, whichgrew wider and wider, finally forming  an archwayonto the narrow cobbled street that was Diagon Alley.   It was quiet, barely time for the shops to open, and there were hardly and  shoppers abroad. The crooked, cobbled street was muchaltered now from the  bustling place Harry had visited before his first team at Hogwarts so many  years before. More shops than ever were boarded up, though several new establishments  dedicated to the Dark Arts had been created since his last visit.  Harry’s own face glared down at him from posters plastered over many windows,  always captioned with the words UNDESIRABLE NUMBER ONE.   Anumber of ragged people sat huddled in doorways. He heard them moaning  to the few passersby, pleading for gold, insisting that they were really wizards.  One man had a bloody bandage over his eye.   As they set off along the street, the beggars glimpsed Hermione. they  seemed to melt away before her, drawing hoods over their faces and fleeing  as fast as they could. Hermione looked after them curiously, until the man  with the bloodied bandage came staggering right across her path.   “My children,” he bellowed, pointing at her. His voice was cracked, high- pitched, he sounded distraught. “Where are my children? What has he done  with them?You know, you know!”   “I-I really—” stammered Hermione.   The man lunged at her, reaching for her throat. Then, with a bang and a  burst of red light he was thrown backward onto the ground, unconscious. Ron  stood there, his wand still outstretched and a look of shockvisible behind his  beard. Faces appeared at the windows on either side of the street, while a  little knot of prosperous-looking passerby gathered their robes about them and  broke into gentle trots, keen to vacate the scene.   their entrance into Diagon Alley could hardly have been more conspicuous;  for a moment Harry wondered whether it might not be better to leave now and  try to think of a different plan. Before they could move or consult one another,  however, they heard a cry from behind them.   
 “Why, Madam Lestrange!”   Harry whirled around and Griphook tightened his hold around Harry’s  neck: Atall, think wizard with a crown of bushy grayhair and a long, sharp  nose was striding toward them.   “It’s Travers,” hissed the goblin into Harry’s ear, but at that moment Harry  couldnotthinkwhoTraverswas. Hermionehaddrawn herselfuptofullheight  and said with as muchcontempt as she could muster:   “And what do you want?”   Travers stopped in his tracks, clearly affronted.   “He’s another Death Eater!” breathed Griphook, and Harry sidled sideways  to repeat the information into Hermione’s ear.   “I merely sought to greet you,” said Travers coolly, “but if my presence is not  welcome ... ”   Harry recognized his voice now: Travers was one of the Death Eaters who  had been summoned to Xenophilius’s house.   “No, no, not at all, Travers,” said Hermione quickly, trying to cover up her  mistake. “How are you?”   “Well,IconfessI am surprised to see you out and about, Bellatrix.”   “Really? Why?” asked Hermione.   “Well,” Travers coughed, “I heard that the Inhabitants of Malfoy Manor  were confined to the house, after the ...ah ... escape.”   Harry willed Hermionetokeepher head.Ifthiswas true,and Bellatrixwas  not supposed to be out in public—   “The Dark Lord forgives those who have served him most faithfully in the  past,” said Hermione in a magnificent imitation of Bellatrix’s most contemptuous  manner. “Perhaps your credit is not as good with him as mine is, Travers.”   Though the Death Eater looked offended, he also seemed less suspicious.  He glanced down at the man Ron had just Stunned.   “How did it offend you?”   “It does not matter, it will not do so again,” said Hermione coolly.   “Some of these wandless can be troublesome,” said Travers. “While they do   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    nothingbutbegIhaveno objection,butoneofthemactuallyaskedmetoplead  her case in the Ministry last week. ‘I’m a witch, sir, I’m a witch, let me prove it  to you!”’hesaidina squeaky impersonation. “AsifI wasgoingtogivehermy  wand—butwhosewand,”saidTravers curiously,“areyouusingatthe moment,  Bellatrix?Iheard that your ownwas—”   “I have my wand here,” said Hermione coldly, holding up Bellatrix’s wand.  “I don’t know what rumors you have been listening to, Travers, but you seem  sadly misinformed.”   Travers seemed a little taken abackat that, and he turned instead to Ron.   “Whois your friend?Ido not recognize him.”   “This is Dragomir Despard,” said Hermione; they had decided that a fictional  foreigner was the safest cover for Ron to assume. “He speaks very little  English, but he is in sympathy with the Dark Lord’s aims. He has traveled  here from Transylvania to see our new regime.”   “Indeed? How do you do, Dragomir?”   “’Ow you?” said Ron, holding out his hand.   Travers extended two fingers and shook Ron’s hand as though frightened of  dirtying himself.   So what brings you and your—ah—sympathetic friend to Diagon Alley this  early?” asked Travers.   “I need to visit Gringotts,” said Hermione.   “Alas,Ialso,” saidTravers. “Gold, filthy gold!We cannot live without it, yet  IconfessIdeplore the necessityof consorting with our long-fingered friends.”   Harry felt Griphook’s clasped hands tighten momentarily around his neck.   “Shall we?” said Travers, gesturing Hermione forward.   Hermione had no choice but to fall into step beside him and head along  the crooked, cobbled street toward the place where the snowy-white Gringotts  stood towering over the other little shops. Ron sloped along beside them, and  Harry and Griphook followed.   Awatchful Death Eater was the very last thing they needed, and the worst  of it was, with Travers matching at what he believed to be Bellatrix’s side,   
 there was no means for Harry to communicate with Hermione or Ron. All too  soon they arrived at the foot of the marble steps leading up to the great bronze  doors. As Griphook had already warned them, the liveried goblins who usually  flanked the entrance had been replaced by two wizards, both of whom were  clutching long thin golden rods.   “Ah, Probity Probes,” signed Travers theatrically, “so crude—but so effective!”    And he set off up the steps,nodding left and right to the wizards,who raised  the golden rods and passed them up and down his body. The Probes, Harry  knew, detected spells of concealment and hidden magical objects. Knowing  thathehadonly seconds,HarrypointedDraco’swandateachoftheguardsin  turn and murmured, “Confundo” twice. UnnoticedbyTravers,whowas looking  throughthe bronze doorsatthe inner hall, eachofthe guardsgavea little start  as the spells hit them.   Hermione’s long blackhair rippled behind her as she climbed the steps.   “One moment, madam,” said the guard, raising his Probe.   “But you’ve just done that!” said Hermione in Bellatrix’s commanding,arrogant  voice. Travers looked around, eyebrows raised. The guard was confused.  He stared down at the thin golden Probe and then at his companion, who said  in a slightly dazed voice,   “Yeah, you’ve just checked them, Marius.”   Hermione swept forward. Ron by her side, Harry and Griphook trotting  invisibly behind them. Harry glanced back as they crossed the threshold. The  wizards were both scratching their heads.   Two goblins stood before the inner doors, which were made of silver and  whichcarried the poem warning of dire retribution to potential thieves. Harry  lookedupatit,andallofasuddenaknife-sharp memory cametohim: standing  on this very spot on the day that he had turned eleven, the most wonderful  birthdayof his life, and Hagrid standing beside him saying, “LikeIsaid, yeh’d  be mad ter try an’ rob it.” Gringotts had seemed a place of wonder that day, the  enchanted repository of a trove of gold he had never known he possessed, and   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    never for an instant could he have dreamed that he would return to steal ....  But within seconds they were standing in the vast marble hall of the bank.   The long counter was manned by goblins sitting on high stools serving the  first customers of the day. Hermione, Ron, and Travers headed toward an old  goblin who was examining a thick gold coin through an eyeglass. Hermione  allowed Travers to step ahead of her on the pretext of explaining features of  the hall to Ron.   Thegoblintossedthecoinhewasholdingaside,saidtonobodyin particular,  “Leprechaun,” and then greeted Travers, who passed over a tiny golden key,  which was examined and given backto him.   Hermione stepped forward.   “Madam Lestrange!” said the goblin, evidently startled. “Dear me!” How- how mayIhelp you today?”   “I wish to enter my vault,” said Hermione.   Theoldgoblinseemedtorecoilalittle.Harryglanced around.Notonlywas  Travers hanging back, watching, but several other goblins had looked up from  their work to stare at Hermione.   “Youhave... identification?” askedthe goblin.   “Identification? I-I have never been asked for identification before!” said  Hermione.   “They know!” whispered Griphook in Harry’s ear, “They must have been  warned there might be an imposter!”   “Your wand will do, madam,” said the goblin. He held out a slightly trembling  hand, and in a dreadful blast of realization Harry knew that the goblins  of Gringotts were aware that Bellatrix’s wand had been stolen.   “Act now,act now,” whispered Griphook in Harry’sear, “the Imperious Curse!”   Harry raised the hawthorn wand beneath the cloak, pointed it at the old  goblin, and whispered, for the first time in his life, “Imperio!”   A curious sensation shot down Harry’s arm, a feeling of tingling, warmth  that seemed to flow from his mind, down the sinews and veins connecting him  tothewandandthe curseithadjust cast. The goblin took Bellatrix’swand, ex   
 amined it closely, and then said, “Ah, you have had a new wand made, Madam   Lestrange!”   “What?” said Hermione, “No, no, that’s mine—”   “A new wand?” said Travers, approaching the counter again; still the goblins  all around were watching. “But how could you have done, which wand- maker did you use?”   Harry acted without thinking. Pointing his wand at Travers, he muttered,  “Imperio!” once more.   “Oh yes, I see,” said Travers, looking down at Bellatrix’s wand, “yes, very  handsome. andisit working well?Ialways thinkwands requirea little breaking  in, don’t you?”   Hermione looked utterly bewildered, but to Harry’s enormous relief she accepted  the bizarre turn of events without comment.   The old goblin behind the counter clapped his hands and a younger goblin  approached.   “I shall need the Clankers,” he told the goblin, who dashed away and returned  a moment later with a leather bag that seemed to be full of jangling  metal, which he handed to his senior. “Good, good! S, if you will follow me,  Madam Lestrange,” said the old goblin, hopping down off his stool and vanishing  from sight. “I shall take you to your vault.”   He appeared around the end of the counter, jogging happily toward them,  the contents of the leather bag still jingling. Travers was now standing quite  still with his mouth hanging wide open. Ron was drawing attention to this odd  phenomenon by regarding Travers with confusion.   “Wait—Bogrod!”   Another goblin came scurrying around the counter.   “We have instructions,” he said with a bow to Hermione. “Forgive me,  Madam, but there have been special orders regarding the vault of Lestrange.”   He whispered urgently in Bogrod’s ear, but the Imperiused goblin shook  him off.   “I am aware of the instructions, Madam Lestrange wishes to visit her vault   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    ....Veryold family...oldclients...Thisway, please... “   And, still clanking, he hurried toward one of the many doors leading off the  hall. Harry looked back at Travers , who was still rooted to the spot looking  abnormally vacant, and made his decision. With a flickof his wand he made  Travers come with them, walking meekly in their wake as they reached the  door and passed into the rough stone passagewaybeyond, which was lit with  flaming torches.   “We’re in trouble; they suspect,” said Harry as the door slammed behind  them and he pulled off the Invisibility Cloak. Griphook jumped down from  his shoulders: neither Travers nor Bogrod showed the slightest surprise at the  sudden appearance of HarryPotter in their midst. “They’re Imperiused,” he  added, in response to Hermione and Ron’s confused queries about Travers and  Bogrod, who were both now standing there looking blank. “I don’t thinkIdid  it strongly enough,Idon’t know...”   And another memory darted through his mind, of the real Bellatrix Lestrange  shrieking at him when he had first tried to use an Unforgivable Curse: “You  need to mean them,Potter!”   “What do we do?” asked Ron. “Shall we get out now, while we can?”   “If we can,” said Hermione, looking backtoward the door into the main hall,  beyond whichwho knew what was happening.   “We’vegot thisfar,I say wegoon,” said Harry.   “Good!” said Griphook. “So, we need Bogrod to control the cart; I no long  have the authority. But there will not be room for the wizard.”   Harry pointed his wand at Travers.   “Imperio!”   The wizard turned and set off along the dark trackat a smart pace.   “What are you making him do?”   “Hide,” said Harry as he pointed his wand at Bogrod, who whistled to summon  a little cart that came trundling along the tracks toward them out of the  darkness. Harry was sure he could hear shouting behind them in the main  hall as they all clambered into it, Bogrod in front of Griphook, Harry, Ron, and   
 Hermione crammed together in the back.   Witha jerkthe cart moved off, gathering speed: They hurried past Travers,  who was wriggling into a crack in the wall, then the cart began twisting and  turning through the labyrinthine passages, sloping downward all the time.  Harry could not hear anything over the rattling of the cart on the tracks: His  hair flew behind him as they swerved between stalactites, flying ever deeper  into the earth, but he kept glancing back. They might as well have left enormous  footprints behind them; the more he thought about it, the more foolish it  seemed to have disguised Hermione as Bellatrix, to have brought along Bellatrix’s  wand, when the Death Eaters knew who had stolen it—   There wereadeeper than Harry had ever penetrated within Gringotts; they  took a hairpin bend at speed and saw ahead of them, with seconds to spare, a  waterfall pounding over the track. Harry heard Griphook shout, “No!” but  there was no braking. They zoomed through it. Water filled Harry’s eyes and  mouth: He could not see or breathe: Then, with anawful lurch, the cart flipped  over and they were all thrown out of it. Harry heard the cart smash into pieces  against the passage wall, heard Hermione shriek something, and felt himself  glide back toward the ground as though weightless, landing painlessly on the  rocky passage floor.   “C-Cushioning Charm,” Hermione spluttered, as Ron pulled her to her feet,  but to Harry’s horror he saw that she was no longer Bellatrix; instead she  stood there in overlarge robes, sopping wet and completely herself; Ron was  red-haired and beardless again. They were realizing it as they looked at each  other, feeling their own faces.   “The Thief’s Downfall!” said Griphook,clambering to his feet and looking  backthe deluge onto the tracks, which, Harry knew now, had been more than  water. “It washes awayall enchantment, all magical concealment! They know  there are imposers in Gringotts, they have set off defenses against us!”   Harry saw Hermione checking that she still had the beaded bag, and hurriedly  thrust his own hand under his jacket to make sure he had not lost the  Invisibility Cloak. Then he turned to see Bogrod shaking his head in bewilder   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    ment:The Thief’s Downfall seemedtohave liftedhis Imperius Curse.   “Weneed him,” said Griphook, “we cannot enter the vault withoutaGringott’s  goblin. And we need the clankers!”   “Imperio!” Harry said again; his voice echoed through the stone passage as  hefeltagainthe senseofheady controlthatflowedfrombraintowand.Bogrod  submitted once more to his will, his befuddled expression changing to one of  polite indifference, as Ron hurried to pickup the leather bag of metal tools.   “Harry,IthinkI can hear people coming!” said Hermione, and she pointed  Bellatrix’s wand at the waterfall and cried, “Protego!” They saw the Shield  Charm break the flow of enchanted water as it flew up the passageway.   “Good thinking,” said Harry. “Lead the way, Griphook!”   “How are we going to get out again?” Ron asked as they hurried on foot into  the darkness after the goblin, Bogrod panting in their wake like an old dog.   “Let’s worry about that when we have to,” said Harry. He was trying to listen:  He thought he could hear something clanking and moving around nearby.  “Griphook, how muchfarther?”   “Not far, HarryPotter, not far... “   And they turned a corner and saw the thing for whichHarry had been prepared,  but whichstill brought all of them to a halt.   Agigantic dragon was tethered to the ground in front of them, barring access  to four or five of the deepest vaults in the place. The beast’s scales had  turned pale and flaky during its long incarceration under the ground, its eyes  were milkily pink; both rear legs bore heavy cuffs from which chains led to  enormous pegs driven deep into the rocky floor. Its great spiked wings, folded  close to its body, would have filled the chamber if it spread them, and when it  turned its ugly head toward them, it roared with a noise that made the rock  tremble, opened its mouth, and spat a jet of fire that sent them running back  up the passageway.   “It is partially blind,” panted Griphook, “but even more savage for that.  However, we have the means to control it. It has learned what to expect when  the Clankers come. Give them to me.”   
 Ronpassedthebagto Griphook,andthegoblinpulledoutanumberofsmall  metal instruments that when shaken made a long ringing noise like miniature  hammers on anvils. Griphook handed them out: Bogrod accepted his meekly.   “You know what to do,” Griphook told Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “It will  expect pain when it hears the noise. It will retreat, and Bogrod must place his  palm upon the door of the vault.”   They advanced around the corner again, shaking the Clankers, and the  noiseechoedoffthe rockywalls, grossly magnified,so thatthe insideof Harry’s  skull seemed to vibrate with the den. The dragon let out another hoarse roar,  then retreated. Harry could see it trembling, and as they drew nearer he saw  the scars made by vicious slashes across its face, and guess that it had been  taught to fear hot swords when it heard the sound of the Clankers.   “Make him press his hand to the door!” Griphook urged Harry, who turned  his wand again upon Bogrod. The old goblin obeyed, pressing his palm to  the wood, and the door of the vault melted away to reveal a cavelike opening  crammed from floor to ceiling with golden coins and goblets, silver armor,  the skins of strange creatures—some with long spines, other with drooping  wings-potions in jeweled flasks, and a skull still wearing a crown. “Search,  fast!” said Harry as they all hurried inside the vault. He had described Hufflepuff’scaptoRonand  Hermione,butifitwasthe other, unknown Horcrux  that resided in this vault, he did not know what it looked like. He barely had  time to glance around, however, before there was a muffled clunk from behind  them: The door had reappeared, sealing them inside the vault, and they were  plunged into total darkness.   “No matter, Bogrod will be able to release us!” said Griphook as Ron gave  a shout of surprise. “Light your wands, can’t you? And hurry, we have little  time!”   “Lumos!”   Harry shone his lit wand around the vault: Its beam fell upon glittering  jewels; he saw the fake sword of Gryffindor lying on a high shelf amongst a  jumble of chains. Ron and Hermione had lit their wands too, and were now   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    examining the piles of objects surrounding them.   “Harry, could this be—? Aargh!”   Hermione screamed in pain, and Harry turned his wand on her in time to  see a jeweled goblet tumbling from her grip. But as it fell, it split, became  a shower of goblets, so that a second later, with a great clatter, the floor was  covered in identical cups rolling in every direction, the original impossible to  discern amongst them.   “It burned me!” moaned Hermione, sucking her blistered fingers.   “They have added Germino and Flagrante Curses!” said Griphook.   “Everything you touchwill burn and multiply,but the copies are worthless—  and if you continue to handle the treasure, you will eventually be crushed to  death by the weight of expanding gold!”   “Okay, don’t touch anything!” said Harry desperately, but even as he said  it, Ron accidentally nudged one of the fallen goblets with his foot, and twenty  more exploded into being while Ron hopped on the spot, part of his shoe burned  awayby contact with the hot metal.   “Stand still, don’t move!” said Hermione, clutching at Ron.   “Just look around!” said Harry. “Remember, the cup’s small and gold, it’s  gotabadgerengravedonit,two handles—otherwiseseeifyoucanspotRavenclaw’s  symbol anywhere, the eagle—”   They directed their wands into every nook and crevice, turning cautiously  on the spot. It was impossible not to brush up against anything; Harry sent  a great cascade of fake Galleons onto the ground where they joined the goblets,  and now there was scarcely room to place their feet, and the glowing  gold blazed with heat, so that the vault felt like a furnace. Harry’s wand- light passed over shields and goblin-made helmets set on shelves rising to the  ceiling; higher and higher he raised the beam, until suddenly it found an object  that made his heart skip and his hand tremble.   “It’s there, it’s up there!”   Ron and Hermione pointed there wands at it too, so that the little golden  cup sparkledina three-wayspotlight:thecupthathad belongedtoHelgaHuf   
 flepuff, whichhad passed into the possession of Hepzibah Smith, from whom it  had been stolenbyTom Riddle.   “And how the hell are we going to get up there without touching anything?”  asked Ron.   “Accio Cup!” cried Hermione, who had evidently forgotten in her desperation  what Griphook had told them during their planning sessions.   “No use, no use!” snarled the goblin.   “Then what do we do?” said Harry, glaring at the goblin. “If you want the  sword, Griphook, then you’ll have to help us more than—wait! Can I touch  stuff with the sword? Hermione, give it here!”   Hermione fumbled insider her robes, drew out a beaded bag, rummaged for  a few seconds, then removed the shining sword. Harry seized it by its rubied  hilt and touched the tip of the blade to a silver flagon nearby, which did not  multiply.   “IfI canjustpoketheswordthrougha handle—buthowamIgoingtoget  up there?”   The shelf on whichthe cup reposed was out of reachfor any of them, even  Ron, whowas tallest. The heat from the enchanted treasure roseinwaves, and  sweat ran down Harry’s face and back as he struggled to think of a wayup to  the cup; and then he heard the dragon roar on the other side of the vault door,  and the sound of clanking growing louder and louder.   They were truly trapped now: There was no way out except through the  door, and a horde of goblins seemed to be approaching on the other side. Harry  looked at Ron and Hermione and saw terror in their faces.   “Hermione,” said Harry, as the clanking grew louder, “I’ve got to get up  there, we’ve got to get rid of it—”   She raised her wand, pointed it at Harry, and whispered, “Levicorpus.”   Hoisted into the air by his ankle, Harry hit a suit of armor and replicas  burst out of it like white-hot bodies, filling the cramped space. With screams  of pain, Ron, Hermione, and the two goblins were knocked aside into other  objects, which also beganto replicate. Half buriedina rising tideof red-hot   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    treasure, they struggled and yelled has Harry thrust the sword through the  handleof Hufflepuff’s cup, hookingit onto the blade.   “Impervius!” screeched Hermione in an attempt to protect herself, Ron, and  the goblins from the burning metal.   Then the worst scream yet made Harry look down: Ron and Hermione were  waist deep in treasure, struggling to keep Bogrod from slipping beneath the  rising tide, but Griphook had sunk out of sight; and nothing but the tips of a  few long fingers were left in view.   Harry seized Griphook’s fingers and pulled. The blistered goblin emerged  by degrees, howling.   “Liberatocorpus!” yelled Harry, and with a crash he and Griphook landed  on the surface of the swelling treasure, and the sword flew out of Harry’s hand.   “Get it!” Harry yelled, fighting the pain of the hot metal on his skin, as  Griphookclambered ontohis shoulders again, determinedtoavoidthe swelling  mass of red-hot objects. “Where’s the sword? It had the cup on it!”   The clanking on the other side of the door was growing deafening—it was  too late—   “There!”   It was Griphook who had seen it and Griphook who lunged, and in that  instant Harry knew that the goblin had never expected them to keep their  word. One hand holding tightly to a fistful of Harry’s hair, to make sure he did  not fallinto the heaving sea of burning gold, Griphook seized the hilt of the  sword and swung it high out of Harry’s reach. The tiny golden cup, skewered  by the handle on the sword’s blade was flung into the air. The goblin astride  him, Harry dived and caught it, and although he could feel it scalding his flesh  he did not relinquish it, even while countless Hufflepuff cups burst from his  fist, raining down upon him as the entrance of the vault opened up again and  hefoundhimselfsliding uncontrollablyonanexpandingavalancheoffierygold  and silver that bore him, Ron, Hermione into the outer chamber.   Hardly aware of the pain from the burns covering his body, and still borne  along the swell of replicating treasure, Harry shoved the cup into his pocket   
 and reached up to retrieve the sword, but Griphook was gone. Sliding from  Harry’s shoulders the moment he could, he had sprinted for cover amongst  the surrounding goblins, brandishing the sword and crying, “Thieves! Thieves!  Help! Thieves!” He vanished into the midst of the advancing crowd, all of  whom were holding daggers and who accepted him without question.   Slipping on the hot metal, Harry struggled to his feet and knew that the  only wayout was through.   “Stupefy!” he bellowed, and Ron and Hermione joined in: Jets of red light  flew into the crowd of goblins, and some toppled over, but others advanced, and  Harry saw several wizard guards running around the corner.   The tethereddragonletoutaroar,andagushofflameflewoverthegoblins;  The wizards fled, doubled-up, backthe waythey had come, and inspiration, or  madness, came to Harry. Pointing his wand at the thick cuffs chaining the  beast to the floor, he yelled, “Relashio!”   The cuffs broken open with loud bangs.   “This way!” Harry yelled, and still shooting Stunning Spells at the advancing  goblins, he sprinted toward the blind dragon.   “Harry—Harry—what are you doing?” cried Hermione.   “Get up, climb up, come on—”   The dragon had not realized that it was free: Harry’s foot found the crook  of its hind leg and he pulled himself up onto its back. The scales were hard  as steel; it did not even seem to feel him. He stretched out an arm; Hermione  hoisted herself up; Ron climbed on behind them, and a second later the dragon  became aware that it was untethered.   With a roar it reared: Harry dug in his knees, clutching as tightly as he  could to the jagged scales as the wings opened, knocking the shrieking goblins  aside like skittles, and it soared into the air. Harry, Ron, and Hermione, flat  on its back, scraped against the ceiling as it dived toward the passage opening,  while the pursuing goblins hurled daggers that glanced off its flanks.   “We’ll never get out, it’s too big!” Hermione screamed, but the dragon  opened its mouth and belched flame again, blasting the tunnel, whose floors   
 CHAPTER  26.  GRINGOTTS    and ceiling cracked and crumbled. By sheer force, the dragon clawed and  fought its way through. Harry’s eyes were shut tight against the heat and  dust: Deafened by the crash of rockand the dragon’s roars, he could only cling  to its back, expecting to be shaken off at any moment; then he heard Hermione  yelling, “Defodio!”   Shewas helping the dragon enlarge the passageway, carving out the ceiling  as it struggled upward toward the fresher air, away from the shrieking and  clanking goblins: Harry and Ron copied her, blasting the ceiling apart with  more gouging spells. They passed the underground lake, and the great crawling,  snarling beast seemed to sense freedom and space ahead of it, and behind  themthe passagewasfullofthe dragon’s thrashing,spikedtail,ofgreatlumps  of rock, gigantic fractured stalactites, and the clanking of the goblins seemed  to be growing more muffled, while ahead, the dragon’s fire kept their progress  clear—   Andthenatlast,bythe combinedforceoftheirspellsandthedragon’sbrute  strength, they had blasted their way out of the passage into the marble hallway.  Goblins and wizards shrieked and ran for cover, and finally the dragon  had room to stretchits wings: Turning its horned head toward the cool outside  air it could smell beyond the entrance, it took off, and with Harry, Ron, and  Hermione still clinging to its back, it forced its waythrough the metal doors,  leaving them buckled and hanging from their hinges, as it staggered into Diagon  Alley and launched itself into the sky.   
 Chapter  27    The  Final  Hiding  Place    T T here was no means of steering; the dragon could not see where it  was going, and Harry knew that if it turned sharply or rolled in  midair they would find it impossible to cling onto its broad back.  Nevertheless,as theyclimbed higher and higher, London unfurling below them  like a gray-and-green map, Harry’s overwhelming feeling was of gratitude for  an escape that had seemed impossible. Crouching low over the beast’s neck,  he clung tight to the metallic scales, and the cool breeze was soothing on his  burned and blistered skin, the dragon’s wings beating the air like the sails of a  windmill. Behind him, whether from delight or fear he could not tell. Ron kept  swearing at the top of his voice, and Hermione seemed to be sobbing.   After five minutes or so, Harry lost some of his immediate dread that the  dragonwasgoingtothrowthemoff,forit seemed intenton nothingbut getting  as far awayfrom its underground prison as possible; but the question of how  and when they were to dismount remained rather frightening. He had no idea  how long dragons could fly without landing, nor how this particular dragon,  which could barely see, would locate a good place to put down. He glanced  around constantly, imagining that he could feel his seat prickling.   Howlongwoulditbe beforeVoldemortknewthattheyhad brokenintothe  Lestranges’ vault? How soon would the goblins of Gringotts notify Bellatrix?   463   
 CHAPTER  27.  THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE    How quickly would they realize what had been taken? And then, when they  discovered that the golden cup was missing? Voldemort would know, at last,  that they were hunting Horcruxes.   The dragon seemed to crave cooler and fresher air. It climbed steadily until  they wereflying throughwispsofchillycloud,andHarrycouldnolongermake  out the little colored dots which were cars pouring in and out of the capital. On  and on they flew, over countryside parceled out in patches of green and brown,  over roads and rivers winding through the landscape like strips of matte and  glossy ribbon.   “What do you reckon it’s looking for?” Ron yelled as they flew farther and  farther north.   “No idea,” Harry bellow back. His hands were numb with cold but he did  not date attempt to shift his grip. He had been wondering for some time what  they would do if they saw the coast sail beneath them, if the dragon headed  for open seal he was cold and numb, not to mention desperately hungry and  thirsty. When, he wondered, had the beast itself last eaten? Surely it would  need sustenance before long? And what if, at that point, it realized it had three  highly edible humans sitting on its back?   The sun slipped lower in the sky, which was turning indigo; and still the  dragon flew, cities and towns gliding out of sight beneath them, its enormous  shadow sliding over the earth like a giant dark cloud. Every part of Harry  ached with the effort of holding on to the dragon’s back.   “Is it my imagination,” shouted Ron after a considerable stretchof silence,  “or are we losing height?”   Harry looked down and sawdeep green mountains and lakes,coppery in the  sunset. the landscape seemed to grow larger and more detailed as he squinted  over the side of the dragon, and he wondered whether it had divined the presence  of fresh water by the flashes of reflected sunlight.   Lower and lower the dragon flew, in great spiraling circles, honing in, it  seemed, upon one of the smaller lakes.   “I say we jump when it gets low enough!” Harry called back to the others.   
 “Straight into the water before it realizes we’re here!”   They agreed, Hermionealittle faintly,and now Harry could see the dragon’s  wide yellow underbelly rippling in the surface of the water.   “NOW!”   He slithered over the side of the dragon and plummeted feetfirst toward the  surface of the lake; the drop was greater than he had estimated and he hit  the water hard, plunging like a stone into a freezing, green, reed-filled world.  He kicked toward the surface and emerged, panting, to see enormous ripples  emanating in circles from the places where Ron and Hermione had fallen. The  dragon did not seem to have noticed anything; it was already fifty feet away,  swooping low over the lake to scoop up water in its scarred snout. As Ron and  Hermione emerged, spluttering and gasping, from the depths of the lake, the  dragon flew on, its wings beating hard, and landed at last on a distant bank.   Harry, Ron and Hermione struck out for the opposite shore. The lake did  not seem to be deep. Soon it was more a question of fighting their waythrough  reeds and mud than swimming, and at last they flopped, sodden, panting, and  exhausted, onto slippery grass.   Hermione collapsed, coughing and shuddering. Though Harry could have  happily lain down and slept, he staggered to his feet, drew out his wand, and  started casting the usual protective spells around them.   Whenhehad finished,he joinedthe others.Itwasthe first time thathehad  seen them properly since escaping from the vault. Both had angry red burns  all over their faces and arms, and their clothing was singed away in places.  They were wincing as they dabbed essence of dittany onto their many injuries.  Hermione handed Harry the bottle, then pulled out three bottles of pumpkin  juice she had brought from Shell Cottage and clean, dry robes for all of them.  They changes and then gulped down the juice.   “Well, on the upside,” said Ron finally, whowas sittingwatching the skin on  his hands regrow, “we got the Horcrux. On the downside—”   “—no sword,” said Harry through gritted teeth, as he dripped dittany through  the singed hole in his jeans onto the angry burn beneath.   
 CHAPTER  27.  THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE    “No sword,” repeated Ron. “That double-crossing little scab... ”   Harry pulled the Horcrux from the pocket of the wet jacket he had just  taken off and set it down on the grass in front of them. Glinting in the sun, it  drew their eyes as they swigged their bottles of juice.   “At least we can’t wear it this time, that’dlook a bit weird hanging around  our necks,” said Ron, wiping his mouth on the backof his hand.   Hermione looked across the laketo the far bank where the dragonwas still  drinking.   “What’ll happen to it, do you think?” she asked, “Will it be alright?”   “YousoundlikeHagrid,”saidRon,“It’sadragon, Hermione,itcanlookafter  itself. It’s us we need to worry about.”   “What do you mean?”   “WellI don’t know how to break this to you,” said Ron, “butI think they  might have noticed we broke into Gringotts.”   All three of them started to laugh, and once started, it was difficult to stop.  Harry’s ribs ached, he felt lightheaded with hunger, but he lay back on the  grass beneath the reddening sky and laughed until his throat was raw.   “What arewegoingtodo,though?” said Hermione finally, hiccuping herself  backto seriousness. “He’ll know, won’t he?You-Know-Who will know we know  about his Horcruxes!”   “Maybe they’ll be too scared to tell him!” said Ron hopefully, “Maybe they’ll  cover up—”   The sky, the smell of the lake water, the sound of Ron’s voice were extinguished.  Pain cleaved Harry’s head like a sword stroke. He was standing in a  dimly lit room, and a semicircle of wizards faced him, and on the floor at his  feet knelt a small, quaking figure.   “What did you say to me?” His voice was high and cold, but fury and fear  burned inside him. The one thing that he had dreaded—but it could not be  true,he could not see how...   The goblin was trembling, unable to meet the red eyes high above his.   “Sayit again!” murmuredVoldemort. “Say it again!”   
 “M-my Lord,” stammered the goblin, its black eyes wide with terror, “m- my Lord...we t-triedto st-stop them... Im-impostors,my Lord... broke—broke  into the—into the Lestranges’ vault... ”   ”Impostors? What impostors? I thought Gringotts had ways of revealing  impostors? Who were they?   “Itwas...itwas...the P-Potter b-boy and the t-two accomplices... ”   “And they took?” he said, his voice rising, a terrible fear gripping him, “Tell  me! What did they take?”   “A...a s-small golden c-cup m-my Lord... ”   The scream of rage, of denial left him as if it were a stranger’s. He was  crazed, frenzied, it could not be true, it was impossible, nobody had known.  How was it possible that the boy could have discovered his secret?   The ElderWand slashed through the air and green light erupted through  the room; the kneeling goblin rolled over dead; the watching wizards scattered  before him, terrified. Bellatrix and Lucius Malfoy threw others behind them in  their race for the door, and again and again his wand fell, and those who were  left were slain, all of them, for bringing him this news, for hearing about the  golden cup—   Alone amongst the dead he stomped up and down, and they passed before  him in vision: his treasures, his safeguards, his anchors to immortality—the  diary was destroyed and the cup was stolen. What if, what if, the boy knew  about the others? Could he know, had he already acted, had he traced more  of them? Was Dumbledore at the root of this? Dumbledore, who had always  suspectedhim; Dumbledore,deadonhisorders; Dumbledore,whosewandwas  his now, yet who reached out from the ignominy of death through the boy, the  boy—   But surely if the boy had destroyed any of his Horcruxes, he, LordVoldemort,  would have known, would have felt it? He, the greatest wizard of them  all; he, the most powerful; he, the killer of Dumbledore and of how many other  worthless, nameless men. How could LordVoldemort not have known, if he,  himself, most important and precious, had been attacked, mutilated?   
 CHAPTER  27.  THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE    True, he had not felt it when the diary had been destroyed, but he had  thoughtthatwas becausehehadnobodytofell,beinglessthanghost....No,  surely, the rest were safe...The other Horcruxes mustbe intact....   Buthe must know,he mustbe sure...He paced the room, kicking aside the  goblin’s corpse as he passed, and the pictures blurred and burned in his boiling  brain: the lake, the shack, and Hogwarts—   A modicum of calm cooled his rage now. How could the boy know that he  had hidden the ring in the Gaunt shack? No one had ever known him to be  related to the Gaunts, he had hidden the connection, the killings had never  been traced to him. The ring, surely, was safe.   And how could the boy, or anybody else, know about the cave or penetrate  its protection? The ideaof the locket being stolenwas absurd....   As for the school: He alone knew where in Hogwarts he had stowed the  Horcrux, becausehe alone had plumed the deepest secretsof that place...   Andtherewasstill Nagini,whomust remainclosenow,nolongersenttodo  his bidding, under his protection....   But to be sure,to be utterly sure,he must return to eachof his hiding places,  he must redouble protection around eachofhis Horcruxes.... Ajob, likethe  quest for the ElderWand, thathe must undertake alone...   Whichshould he visit first, which was in most danger? An old unease flickered  inside him. Dumbledore had known his middle name.... Dumbledore  might have made the connection with the Gaunts.... Their abandoned home  was, perhaps, the least secure of his hiding places, it was there that he would  go first....   The lake, surely impossible... though was there a slight possibility that  Dumbledore might have known some of his past misdeeds, through the orphanage.    And Hogwarts...buthe knew the his Horcrux there was safe;it would  be impossible forPotter to enter Hogsmeade without detection, let alone the  school. Nevertheless, it would be prudent to alert Snape to the fact that the  boymighttryto reenterthe castle.....TotellSnapewhytheboymight return   
 would be foolish, of course; it had been a grave mistake to trust Bellatrix and  Malfoy. Didn’t their stupidity and carelessness prove how unwise it was ever  to trust?   He would visit the Gaunt shackfirst, then, and take Nagini with him. He  wouldnotbepartedfromthe snake anymore ...andhe strodefromthe room,  through the hall, and out into the dark garden where the fountain played; he  called the snake in Parseltongue and it slithered out to join him like a long  shadow....   Harry’s eyes flew open as he wrenched himself back to the present. He  was lying on the bank of the lake in the setting sun, and Ron and Hermione  were looking down at him. Judging by their worried looks, and by the continued  pounding of his scar, his sudden excursion intoVoldemort’s mind had not  passed unnoticed. He struggled up, shivering, vaguely surprised that he was  still wet to his skin, and saw the cup lying innocently in the grass before him,  and the lake, deep blue shot with gold in the falling sun.   “He knows.” His own voice sounded strange and low afterVoldemort’s high  screams. “He knows and he’s going to checkwhere the others are, and the last  one,”hewas alreadyonhisfeet,“isatHogwarts.Iknewit.I knew it.”   “What?”   Ron was gaping at him; Hermione sat up, looking worried.   “But what did you see? How do you know?”   “I saw him find out about the cup, I-I was in his head, he’s”—Harry remembered  the killings—“he’s seriously angry, and scared too, he can’t understand  how we knew, and now he’s going to check the others are safe, the ring first.  He things the Hogwarts one is safest, because Snape’s there, because it’ll be so  hard not to be seen getting in. I think he’ll check that one last, but he could  still be there within hours—”   “Did you see where in Hogwarts it is?” asked Ron, now scrambling to his  feet too.   “No, he was concentrating on warning Snape, he didn’t think about exactly  where it is—”   
 CHAPTER  27.  THE  FINAL  HIDING  PLACE    “Wait, wait!” cried Hermione as Ron caught up to the Horcrux and Harry  pulledoutthe InvisibilityCloakagain.“Wecan’tjustgo,wehaven’tgotaplan,  we need to—”   “We need to get going,” said Harry firmly. He had been hoping to sleep,  looking forwardto getting intothe new tent,but thatwas impossible now, ”Can  you imagine what he’s going to do once he realizes the ring and the locket are  gone? What if he moves the Hogwarts Horcrux, decides it isn’t safe enough?   “But how are we going to get in?”   “We’ll go to Hogsmeade,” said Harry, “and try to work something out once  we see what the protection around the school’s like. Get under the Cloak,  Hermione,I wantto sticktogether this time.”   “But we don’t really fit—”   “It’ll be dark, no one’s going to notice our feet.”   The flapping of enormous wings echoed across the black water. The dragon  had drunk its fill and risen into the air. They paused in their preparations to  watchitclimbhigherandhigher, nowblackagainsttherapidly darkeningsky,  untilit vanished overa nearby mountain. Then Hermionewalked forward and  took her place between the other two, Harry pulled the Cloak down as far as it  would go, and together they turned on the spot into the crushing darkness.   
 Chapter  28    The  Missing  Mirror    H H arry’sfeet touched the road. He sawthe achingly familiar Hogsmeade  High Street: dark shop fronts, and the mist line of black mountains  beyond the village and the curve in the road ahead that led  off toward Hogwarts, and light spilling from the windows of the Three Broomsticks,  and with a lurch of the hear, he remembered with piercing accuracy,  how he had landed here nearly a year before, supporting a desperately weak  Dumbledore, all this in a second, upon landing—and then, even as he relaxed  his grip upon Ron’s and Hermione’s arms, it happened.   The airwas rentbya scream that sounded likeVoldemort’s whenhe had  realized the cup had been stolen: It tore at every nerve in Harry’s body, and he  knew that their appearance had caused it. Even as he looked at the other two  beneath the Cloak, the door of the Three Broomsticks burst open and a dozen  cloaked and hooded Death Eaters dashed into the streets, their wands aloft.   Harry seized Ron’s wrist as he raised his wand; there were too many of  them to run. Even attempting it would have give awaytheir position. One of  the Death Eaters raised hiswand, and the scream stopped, still echoing around  the distant mountains.   “Accio Cloak!” roared one of the Death Eaters   Harry seized his folds, but it made no attempt to escape. The Summoning   471   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    Charm had not worked on it.   “Not under your wrapper, then, Potter?” yelled the Death Eater who had  tried the charm and then to his fellows. “Spread now. He’s here.”   Six of the Death Eaters ran toward them: Harry, Ron and Hermione backed  as quickly as possible down the nearest side street, and the Death Eaters  missed them by inches. They waited in the darkness, listening to the footsteps  running up and down, beams of light flying along the street from the Death  Eaters’ searching wands.   “Let’s just leave!” Hermione whispered. “Disapparate now!”   “Great idea,” said Ron, but before Harry could reply,aDeath Eater shouted,   “We know you are here,Potter, and there’s no gettingaway!We’ll find you!”   “They were ready for us,” whispered Harry. “They set up that spell to tell  them we’d come.I reckon they’ve done something to keep us here, trap us—”   “What about dementors?” called another Death Eater. “Let’em have free  rein, they’dfind him quickenough!”   “The Dark LordwantsPotter deadby no hands but his—”   “ ’an dementors won’t kill him! The Dark LordwantsPotter’s life, nor his  soul. He’ll be easier to kill if he’s been Kissed first!”   There were noises of agreement. Dread filled Harry: To repel dementors  they wouldhaveto producePatronuses whichwouldgive themawayimmediately.    “We’re going to have to try to Disapparate, Harry!” Hermione whispered.   Even as she said it, he felt the unnatural cold being spread over the street.  Light was sucked from the environment right up to the stars, whichvanished.  In the pitchblackness, he felt Hermione take hold of his arm and together,they  turned on the spot.   The air through whichthey needed to move, seemed to have become solid:  They could not Disapparate; the Death Eaters hadcast their charms well. The  cold was biting deeper and deeper into Harry’s flesh. He, Ron and Hermione  retreated down the side street, groping their wayalong the wall trying not to  make a sound. Then, around the corner, gliding noiselessly, came dementors,   
 ten or more of them, visible because they were of a denser darkness than their  surroundings, with their black cloaks and their scabbed and rotting hands.  Could they sense fear in the vicinity? Harry was sure of it: They seemed to be  coming more quickly now, taking those dragging, rattling breaths he detested,  tasting despair in the air, closing in—   He raised his wand: He could not, would not suffer the Dementor’s Kiss,  whatever happened afterward. It was of Ron and Hermione that he thought as  he whispered “ExpectoPatronum!”   The silver stag burst from his wand and charged: The Dementors scattered  and there was a triumphant yell from somewhere out of sight   “It’s him, down there, down there,I saw hisPatronus,itwasa stag!”   The Dementors have retreated, the stars were popping out again and the  footsteps of the Death Eaters were becoming louder; but before Harry in his  panic could decide what to do, there was a grinding of bolts nearby, a door  opened on the left-side of the narrow street, and a rough voice said: “Potter, in  here, quick!”   He obeyed without hesitation, the three of them hurried through the open  doorway.   “Upstairs, keep the Cloak on, keep quiet!” muttered a tall figure, passing  them on his wayinto the street and slammed the door behind him.   Harry had had no idea where they were, but now he saw, by the stuttering  light of a single candle, the grubby, sawdust bar of the Hog’s Head Inn. They  ran behind the counter and through a second doorway, whichled to a trickery  wooden staircase, that they climbed as fast as they could. The stairs opened  into a sitting room with a durable carpet and a small fireplace, above which  hungasinglelargeoil paintingofa blondegirlwhogazedoutatthe roomwith  a kind of a vacant sweetness.   Shouts reached from the streets below. Still wearing the Invisibility Cloak  on, they hurried toward the grimy window and looked down. Their savior,  whom Harry now recognized as the Hog’s Head’s barman, was the only person  not wearing a hood.   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    “So what?” he was bellowing into one of the hooded faces. “So what? You  send dementorsdownmy street,I’llsendaPatronusbackat’em!I’mnothaving’em  near me, I’ve told you that. I’m not having it!”   “Thatwasn’t yourPatronus,” saida Death Eater. “Thatwasa stag. Itwas  Potter’s!”   “Stag!” roared the barman, and he pulled out a wand. “Stag! You idiot—  ExpectoPatronum!”   Somethinghugeand hornederuptedfromthewand. Headdown,itcharged  toward the High Street, and out of sight.   “That’s not whatI saw” said the Death Eater, thoughwas less certainly   “Curfew’s been broken, you heard the noise,” one of his companions told the  barman. “Someone was out on the streets against regulations—”   “IfI wanttoputmycatout,Iwill,andbe damnedtoyour curfew!”   “Youset off the Caterwauling Charm?”   “What ifI did? Going to cart me off to Azkaban? Kill me for sticking my  noseoutmy own front door? Doit,then,ifyouwantto! ButIhopeforyour  sakes you haven’t pressed your little Dark Marks, and summoned him. He’s  not going to like being called here, for me and my old cat, is he, now?”   “Don’t worry about us.” said one of the Death Eaters, “worry about yourself,  breaking curfew!”   “And where will you lot traffic potions and poisons when my pub’s closed  down? What will happen to your little sidelines then?”   “Are you threatening—?”   “I keep my mouth shut, it’s why you come here, isn’t it?”   “I still sayI sawa stagPatronus!” shouted the first Death Eater.   “Stag?” roared the barman. “It’s a goat, idiot!”   “All right, we made a mistake,” said the second Death Eater. “Break curfew  again and we won’t be so lenient!”   The Death Eaters strode backtowards the High Street. Hermione moaned  with relief, wove out from under the Cloak, and sat down on a wobble-legged  chair. Harry drew the curtains then pulled the Cloak off himself and Ron. They   
 could hear the barman down below, rebolting the doorof the bar, thenclimbing  the stairs.   Harry’s attention was caught by something on the mantelpiece: a small,  rectangular mirror, propped on top of it, right beneath the portrait of the girl.   The barman entered the room.   “You bloody fools,” he said gruffly, looking from one to the other of them.  “What were you thinking, coming here?”   “Thank you,” said Harry. “You can’t thank you enough.You saved our lives!”   The barman grunted. Harry approached him looking up into the face: trying  to see past the long, stringy, wire-gray hair beard. He wore spectacles.  Behind the dirty lenses, the eyes were a piercing, brilliant blue.   “It’s your eye I’ve been seeing in the mirror.”   There was a silence in the room. Harry and the barman looked at each  other.   “You sent Dobby.”   The barman nodded and looked around for the elf.   ”Thought he’dbe with you. Where’ve you left him?   “He’s dead,” said Harry, “Bellatrix Lestrange killed him.”   The barman face was impassive. After a few moments he said, “I’m sorry to  hear it,Iliked that elf.”   He turnedaway, lightninglampswithprodsofhiswand,not lookingatany  of them.   “You’re Aberforth,” said Harry to the man’s back.   He neither confirmed or denied it, but bent to light the fire.   “How did you get this?” Harry asked, walking across to Sirius’s mirror, the  twin of the one he had broken nearly two years before.   “BoughtitfromDung’boutayearago,”said Aberforth. “Albustoldmewhat  it was. Been trying to keep an eye out for you.”   Ron gasped.   “The silver doe,” he said excitedly, “Was that you too?”   “What are you talking about?” asked Aberforth.   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    “Someone sentadoePatronustous!”   “Brains like that,you couldbea Death Eater, son. Haven’tIjust provemy  Patronus is a goat?”   “Oh,” said Ron, “Yeah... well, I’m hungry!” he added defensively as his  stomachgave an enormous rumble.   “I got food,” said Aberforth, and he sloped out of the room, reappearing  moments later with a large loaf of bread, some cheese, and a pewter jug of  mead, whichhe set upon a small table in front of the fire. Ravenous, they ate  and drank, and for a while there was sound of chewing.   “Right then,” said Aberforth when the had eaten their fill and Harry and  Ron sat slumped dozily in their chairs. “We need to think of the best way to  get you out of here. Can’t be done by night, you heard what happens if anyone  moves outdoors during darkness: Caterwauling Charm’s set off, they’ll be onto  you like bowtruckles on doxy eggs. Idon’t reckon I’ll be able to pass of a stag  asagoata secondtime.Waitfordaybreakwhen curfewlifts,thenyoucanput  your Cloak back on and set out on foot. Get right out of Hogsmeade, up into  the mountains, and you’ll be able to Disapparate there. Might see Hagrid. He’s  beenhidinginacaveuptherewithGrawp eversincetheytriedto arresthim.”   “We’re not leaving,” said Harry. “We need to get into Hogwarts.”   “Don’t be stupid, boy,” said Aberforth.   “We’ve got to,” said Harry.   “What you’ve got to do,” said Aberforth, leaning forward, “is to get as far  from here as from here as you can.”   “You don’t understand. There isn’t much time. We’ve got to get into the  castle. Dumbledore—I mean, your brother—wanted us—”   The firelight made the grimy lenses of Aberforth’s glasses momentarily  opaque, a bright flat white, and Harry remembered the blind eyes of the giant  spider, Aragog.   “My brother Albus wanted a lot of things,” said Aberforth, “and people had  ahabitofgettinghurtwhilehewas carryingouthisgrandplans.Yougetaway  from this school,Potter, and outof the countryif you can. Forgetmy brother   
 and his clever schemes. He’s gone where none of this can hurt him, and you   don’t owe him anything.”   “You don’t understand.” said Harry again.   “Oh, don’t I? said Aberforth quietly. ”You don’t thinkIunderstood my own  brother? Think you know Albus better thanIdid?”   “I didn’t mean that,” said Harry, whose brain felt sluggish with exhaustion  andfromthe surfeitoffoodandwine. “It’s...heleftmeajob.”   “Did he now?” said Aberforth. “Nice job, I hope? Pleasant? Easy? Sort  of thing you’dexpect an unqualified wizard kid to be able to do without overstretching  themselves?”   Ron gave a rather grim laugh. Hermione was looking strained.   “I—it’s not easy, no,” said Harry. “But I’ve got to—”   “‘Got to’? Why ‘got to’? He’s dead, isn’t he?” said Aberforth roughly. “Let it  go, boy, before you follow him! Save yourself!”   “I can’t.”   “Why not?”   “I—” Harry felt overwhelmed; he could not explain, so he took the offensive  instead. “But you’re fighting too, you’re in the Order of the Phoenix—”   “I was,” said Aberforth. “The Order of the Phoenix is finished. You-KnowWho’s  won, it’s over, and anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves.  It’ll neverbesafeforyouhere,Potter,hewantsyoutoobadly. Sogo  abroad, go into hiding, save yourself. Best take these two with you.” He jerked  a thumb at Ron and Hermione. “They’ll be in danger long as they live now  everyone knows they’ve been working with you.”   “I can’t leave,” said Harry. “I’ve got a job—”   “Give it to someone else!”   “I can’t. It’s got to be me, Dumbledore explained it all—”   “Oh, did he now? And did he tell you everything, was he honest with you?”   Harry wanted him with all his heart to say “Yes,” but somehow the simple  word would not rise to his lips, Aberforth seemed to know what he was  thinking.   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    “Iknewmy brother,Potter.He learnedsecrecyatour mother’sknee. Secrets  and lies, that’s how we grewup, and Albus...hewasa natural.”   The old man’s eyes traveled to the painting of the girl over the mantelpiece.  It was, now Harry looked around properly, the only picture in the room. There  was no photograph of Albus Dumbledore, nor of anyone else.   “Mr. Dumbledore” said Hermione rather timidly. ”Is that your sister? Ariana?    “Yes.” said Aberforth tersely. “Been reading Rita Skeeter, have you, missy?”   Evenbytherosylightofthefireitwasclearthat Hermionehad turnedred.   “Elphias Doge mentioned her to us,” said Harry, trying to spare Hermione.   “That old berk,” muttered Aberforth, taking another swig of mead. “Thought  thesunshoneoutofmy brother’severyoffice,hedid.Well,sodidplentyofpeople,  you three included, by the looks of it.”   Harry kept quiet. He did not want to express the doubts and uncertainties  about Dumbledore that had riddled him for months now. He had made his  choice while he dug Dobby’s grave, he had decided to continue along the winding,  dangerous path indicated for him by Albus Dumbledore, to accept that he  had not been told everything that he wanted to know, but simply to trust. He  had no desire to doubt again; he did not want o hear anything that would deflect  him from his purpose. He met Aberforth’s gaze, which was so strikingly  like his brothers’: The bright blue eyes gave the same impression that they  were X-raying the object of their scrutiny, and Harry thought that Aberforth  knew what he was thinking and despised him for it.   “Professor Dumbledore cared about Harry, very much,” said Hermione in a  low voice.   “Did he now?” said Aberforth. “Funny thing how many of the people my  brother cared about very muchended up in a worse state than if he’dleft ’em  well alone.”   “What do you mean?” asked Hermione breathlessly.   “Never you mind,” said Aberforth.   “But that’s a really serious thing to say!” said Hermione. “Are you—are you   
 talking about your sister?”   Aberforth glared at her: His lips moved as if he were chewing the words he  was holding back. Then he burst into speech.   “Whenmy sisterwassixyearsold,shewas attacked,bythreeMuggleboys.  They’dseen her doing magic, spying through the backgarden hedge: Shewasa  kid, she couldn’t control it, no witch or wizard can at that age. What they saw,  scared them,Iexpect. They forced theirwaythrough the hedge, and when she  couldn’tshowthemthetrick,theygotabit carriedawaytryingtostopthelittle  freak doing it.”   Hermione’s eyes were huge in the firelight; Ron looked slightly sick. Aberforth  stood up, tall as Albus, and suddenly terrible in his anger and the intensity  of his pain.   ”It destroyed her, what they did: She was never right again. She wouldn’t  use magic, but she couldn’t get rid of it; it turned inward and drove her mad, it  exploded out of her when she couldn’t control it, and at times she was strange  and dangerous. But mostly she was sweet and scared and harmless.   “And my father went after the bastards that did it,” said Aberforth, ”and  attacked them. And they locked him up in Azkaban for it. He never said why  he’ddone it, because the Ministry had known what Ariana had become, she’d  have been locked up in St. Mungo’s for good. They’dhave seen her as a serious  threat to the International Statute of Secrecy, unbalanced like she was, with  magic exploding out of her at moments when she couldn’t keep it in any longer.   ”We had to keep her safe and quiet. We moved house, put it about she was  ill, and my mother looked after her, and tried to keep her calm and happy.   “Iwas her favourite,” he said, and as he said it, a grubby schoolboy seemed  to look out through Aberforth’s wrinkles and wrangled beard. “Not Albus, he  wasalwaysupinhis bedroomwhenhewashome,readinghisbooksand counting  his prizes, keeping up with his correspondence with ‘the most notable magical  names of the day,”’ Aberforth succored. “He didn’twanttobe bothered with  her. She liked me best. Icould get her to eat when she wouldn’t do it for my  mother,Icouldcalmherdown,whenshewasinoneofher rages,andwhenshe   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    was quiet, she used to help me feed the goats.   “Then, when shewas fourteen...See,I wasn’t there.” said Aberforth. “IfI’d  been there,Icould have calmed her down. She had one of her rages, and my  motherwasn’tas youngasshewas,and...itwasan accident. Ariana couldn’t  control it. But my mother was killed.”   Harry felt a horrible mixture of pity and repulsion; he did not want to hear  any more, but Aberforth kept talking, and Harry wondered how long it had  been since he had spoken about this; whether, in fact, he had ever spoken  about it.   “So that put paid to Albus’s trip round the world with little Doge. The pair  of ’em came home for my mother’s funeral and then Doge went off on his own,  and Albus settled down as head of the family. Ha!”   Aberforth spat into the fire.   “I’dhave looked after her,Itold him so,Ididn’t care about school, I’dhave  stayedhomeanddoneit.HetoldmeIhadto finishmy educationand he’d take  over from my mother. Bit of a comedown for Mr. Brilliant, there’s no prizes  for looking after your half-mad sister, stopping her blowing up the house every  otherday.Buthedidallrightforafew weeks...tillhe came.”   And now a positively dangerous look crept over Aberforth’s face.   “Grindelwald. And at last, my brother had an equal to talk to someone just  as bright and talented he was. And looking after Ariana took a backseat then,  while they were hatching all their plans fora newWizarding order and looking  for Hallows, and whatever else it was they were so interested in. Grand plans  forthe benefitofallWizardkind,andifoneyounggirl neglected,whatdidthat  matter, when Albus was working for the greater good?   “But afterafew weeksofit,I’dhad enough,Ihad.Itwasnearlytimeforme  togohacktoHogwarts, soItold’em,bothof’em, face-to-face,likeI amtoyou,  now,” and Aberforth looked downward Harry, and it took a little imagination to  see him asateenager,wiry and angry,confronting his elder brother. “I told him,  you’dbetter give it up now. You can’t move her, she’s in no fit state, you can’t  take her with you, wherever it is you’re planning to go, when you’re making   
 your clever speeches, trying to whip yourselves up a following. He didn’t like  that.” said Aberforth, and his eyes were briefly occludedby the fireflight on the  lenses of his glasses: They turned white and blind again. ”Grindelwald didn’t  likethatatall.Hegotangry.Hetold mewhatastupid littleboyI was,trying  tostandinthewayofhimandmy brilliant brother...Didn’tI understand, my  poor sister wouldn’t have to be hidden once they’d changed the world, and led  the wizards out of hiding, and taught the Muggles their place?   “And therewasan argument ...andI pulledmywand,andhe pulledout  his, andIhad the Cruciatus Curse used on mebymy brother’s best friend—  and Albus was trying to stop him, and then all three of us were dueling, and  the flashing lights and the bangs set her off, she couldn’t stand it—”   The color was draining from Aberforth’s face as though he had suffered a  mortal wound.   “—andIthinkshewantedtohelp,butshe didn’treallyknowwhatshewas  doing, andIdon’t know whichof us did it, it could have been any of us—and  she was dead.”   Hisvoicebrokeonthelastwordandhedroppeddownintothe nearestchair.  Hermione’s face was wet with tears, and Ron was almost as pale as Aberforth.  Harry felt nothing but revulsion: He wished he had not heard it, wished he  could wash is mind clean of it.   “I’mso...I’mso sorry,” Hermione whispered.   “Gone,” croaked Aberforth. “Gone forever.”   He wiped his nose on hiss cuff and cleared his throat.   “ ’Course, Grindelwald scarpered. He had a bit of a track record already,  backin his own country, and he didn’t want Ariana set to his account too. And  Albus was free, wasn’t he? Free of the burden of his sister, free to become the  greatest wizard of the—”   “He was never free,” said Harry.   “I beg your pardon?” said Aberforth.   “Never,” said Harry. “The night that your brother died, he drank a potion  that drove him out of his mind. He started screaming, pleading with someone   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    whowasn’tthere. ’Don’thurtthem,please...hurtme instead.’”   Ron and Hermione were staring at Harry. He had never gone into details  about what had happened on the island on the lake: The events that had taken  place after he and Dumbledore had returned to Hogwarts had eclipsed it so  thoroughly.   “He thoughthewasbacktherewithyouand Grindelwald,Iknowhedid,”  said Harry, remembering Dumbledore whispering, pleading. “He thought he  waswatching Grindelwald hurtingyouand Ariana...Itwas torturetohim,if  you’d seen him then, you wouldn’t sayhe was free.”   Aberforth seemed lost in contemplation of his own knotted and veined hands.  After a long pause he said. “How can you be sure, Potter, that my brother  wasn’t more interested in the greater good than in you? How can you be sure  you aren’t dispensable, just like my little sister?”   Ashard of ice seemed to pierce Harry’s heart.   “I don’t believe it. Dumbledore loved Harry,” said Hermione.   “Why didn’t he tell him to hide, then? shot backAberforth. ”Why didn’t he  sayto him, ’Take care of yourself, here’s how to survive’ ?”   “Because,”said Harry before Hermione could answer,“sometimes you’ve got  to think about more than your own safety! Sometimes you’ve got to think about  the greater good! This is war!”   “You’re seventeen, boy!”   “I’m of age, and I’m going to keep fighting even if you’ve given up!”   “Who says I’ve given up?”   “The Order of the Phoenix is finished,” Harry repeated, “You-Know-Who’s  won, it’s over, and anyone who’s pretending different’s kidding themselves.”   “I don’t sayIlike it, but it’s the truth!”   “No, it isn’t.” said Harry. “Your brother knew how to finish You-Know- Who and he passed the knowledge on to me. I’m going to keep going untilI  succeed—orIdie. Don’t thinkIdon’t know how this might end. I’ve known it  for years.”   Hewaitedfor Aberforthtojeerortoargue,buthedidnot.Hemerelymoved.   
 “Weneed to get into Hogwarts,” said Harry again. “If you can’t help us, we’ll  wait till daybreak, leave you in peace, and try to find a wayin ourselves. If you  can help us—well, now would be a great time to mention it.”   Aberforth remained fixed in his chair, gazing at Harry with the eye, that  were so extraordinarily like his brother’s. At last he cleared his throat, got to  his feet, walked around the little table, and approached the portrait of Ariana.   “You know what to do,” he said.   She smiled, turned, and walked away, not as people in portraits usually  did, one of the sides of their frames, but along what seemed to be a long tunnel  painted behind her. They watched her slight figure retreating until finally she  was swallowed by the darkness.   “Er—what—?” began Ron.   “There’s only one way in now,” said Aberforth. “You must know they’ve  got all the old secret passageways covered at both ends, dementors all around  the boundary walls, regular patrols inside the school from what my sources  tell me. The place has never been so heavily guarded. How you expect to do  anything once you get inside it, with Snape in charge and the Carrows as his  deputies... well, that’s your lookout, isn’t it?You sayyou’re prepared to die.”   “But what ...?” said Hermione, frowning at Ariana’s picture.   Atiny white dot reappeared at the end of the painted tunnel, and now Ariana  was walking back toward them, growing bigger and bigger as she came.  But there was somebody else with her now, someone taller than she was, who  was limping along, looking excited. His hair was longer than Harry had ever  seen. He appeared and torn. Larger and larger the two figures grew, until  only their heads and shoulders filled the portrait. Then the whole thing swang  forward on the wall like a little door, and the entrance to a real tunnel was  revealed. And ourofit, his hair overgrown, his face cut, his robes ripped,clambered  the real Neville Longbottom, whogavea roarof delight, leapt down from  the mantelpiece and yelled. “I knew you’dcome! Iknew it, Harry!”   
 CHAPTER  28.  THE  MISSING  MIRROR    
 Chapter  29    The  Lost  Diadem    N N eville—what the—how—?”  But Neville had spotted Ron and Hermione, and with yells of delight  was hugging them too. The longer Harry looked at Neville  , the worse he appeared: One of his eyes was swollen yellow and purple, there  were gouge marks on his face, and his general air of unkemptness suggested  that he had been living rough. Nevertheless, his battered visage shone with  happiness as he let go of Hermione and said again, “I knew you’dcome! Kept  telling Seamus it was a matter of time!”   “Neville, what’s happened to you?”   “What? This?” Neville dismissed his injuries with a shake of the head.  “Thisisnothing,Seamusis worse.You’llsee.Shallwegetgoingthen?Oh,”he  turned to Aberforth, “Ab, there might be a couple more people on the way.”   “Couple more?” repeated Aberforth ominously. “What d’you mean, a couple  more, Longbottom? There’s a curfew and a Caurwauling Charm on the whole  village!”   “I know, that’s why the’ll be Apparating directly into the bar,” said Neville.  “Just send them down the passage when they get here, will you? Thanksa lot.”   Neville held out his hand to Hermione and helped her climb up onto the  mantelpiece and into the tunnel, Ron followed, then Neville. Harry addressed   485   
 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    Aberforth.   “I don’t know how to thank you.You’ve saved our lives twice.”   “Look after ’em, then,” said Aberforth gruffly. “I might not be able to save  ’em a third time.”   Harry clambered up onto the mantelpiece and through the hold behind Ariana’s  portrait. There were smooth stone steps on the outside: It looked as  though the passagewayhad been there for years. Brass lamps hung from the  walls and the earthy floorwas worn and smooth; as theywalked, their shadows  rippled, fanlike, across the wall.   “How long’s this been here?” Ron asked as they set off. “It isn’t on the  Marauder’sMap,isit,Harry?Ithoughttherewereonly seven passagesinand  out of the school?”   “They sealed off all of those before the start of the year,” said Neville. “There’s  no chance of getting through any of them now, not with the curses over the entrances  and Death Eaters and dementors waiting at the exits.” He started  walking backward, beaming, drinking them in. “Never mind that stuff.... Is  it true? Did you break into Gringotts? Did you escape on a dragon? It’s everywhere,  everyone’s talking aboutit,Teddy Bootgot beatenupby Carrowfor  yelling about it in the Great Hall at dinner!”   “Yeah, it’s true,” said Harry.   Neville laughed gleefully,   “What did you do with the dragon?”   “Released it into the wild,” said Ron. “Hermione was all for keeping it as a  pet—”   “Don’t exaggerate, Ron—”   “But what have you been doing? People have been saying you’ve just been  ontherun,Harry,butIdon’tthinkso.Ithinkyou’vebeenupto something.”   “You’re right,” said Harry. “but tell us about Hogwarts, Neville, we haven’t  heard anything.”   “It’s been... well, it’s not really like Hogwarts anymore,” said Neville, the  smile fading from his face as he spoke. “Do you know about the Carrows?”   
 “Those two Death Eaters who teachhere?”   “Theydo more than teach,” said Neville. “They’reinchargeof all discipline.  They like punishment, the Carrows.”   “Like Umbridge?”   “Nah, they make her look tame. The other teachers are all supposed to refer  us the the Carrows if we do anything wrong. They don’t, though, if they can  avoid it.You can tell they all hate them as much as wedo.”   “Amycus, the bloke, he teaches what used to be Defense Against the Dark  Arts, except now it’s just Dark Arts. We’re supposed to practice the Cruciatus  Curse on people who’ve earned detentions—”   “What?”   Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s united voices echoed up and down the passage.   “Yeah,”said Neville. “That’showIgotthisone,”hepointedata particularly  deep gash in his cheek, “I refused to do it. Some people are into it, though;  CrabbeandGoyleloveit.Firsttime they’ve everbeentopin anything,Iexpect.   “Alecto,Amycus’ sister, teaches Muggle Studies, whichis compulsory for everyone.  We’ve all got to listen to her explain how Muggles are like animals,  stupid and dirty, and how they drove wizards into hiding by being vicious toward  them, and how the natural order is being reestablished. Igot this one,”  he indicated another slash to his face, “for asking how muchMuggleblood she  and her brother have got.”   “Blimey, Neville,” said Ron, “there’s a time and a place for getting a smart  mouth.”   “You didn’t hear her,” said Neville. “You wouldn’t have stood it either. The  thing is, it helps when people stand up to them, it gives everyone hope. Iused  to notice that when you did it, Harry.”   “But they’ve used you as a knife sharpener,” said Ron, wincing slightly as  they passed a lamp and Neville’s injuries were thrown into even greater relief.   “Doesn’t matter. They don’t want to spill too much pure blood, so they’ll  torture us a bit if we’re mouthy but they won’t actually kill us.”   Harry did not know what was worse, the things that Neville was saying or   
 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    the matter-of-fact tone in whichhe said them.   “The only people in real danger are the ones whose friends and relatives on  the outside are giving trouble. They get taken hostage. Old Xeno Lovegoodwas  getting a bit too outspoken in The Quibbler, so they dragged Luna off the train  on the waybackfor Christmas.”   “Neville, she’s all right, we’ve seen her—”   “Yeah,Iknow,she managedtometa messagetome.”   From his pocket he pulled a golden coin, and Harry recognized it as one  of the fake Galleons that Dumbledore’s Army had used to send one another  messages.   “These have been great,” said Neville, beaming at Hermione. “The Carrows  never rumbled how we were communicating, it drove them mad. We used to  sneak out at night and put graffiti on the walls: Dumbledore’s Army, Still Recruiting,  stuff like that. Snape hated it.”   “You used to?” said Harry, who had noticed the past tense.   “Well, it got more difficult as time went on,” said Neville. “We lost Luna at  Christmas, and Ginny never came backafter Easter, and the three of us were  sortof leaders. The Carrows seemedto know thatI was behindalotofit,so  they started coming down on me hard, and then Michael Corner went and got  caught releasing a first-year they’d chained up, and they tortured him pretty  badly. That scared people off.”   “No kidding,” muttered Ron, as the passage began to slope upward.   “Yeah, well, I couldn’t ask people to go through what Michael did, so we  dropped those kinds of stunts. But we were still fighting, doing underground  stuff, right up until a couple of weeks ago. That’s when they decided there was  only onewaytostopme,Isuppose,andthey wentfor Gran.”   “They what?” said Harry, Ron, and Hermione together.   “Yeah,” said Neville, panting a little now, because the passage was climbing  so steeply, “well, you can see their thinking. It had worked really well, kidnappingkidstoforcetheir  relativestobehave,Is’poseitwasonlya matteroftime  before they did it the other wayaround. Thing was,” he faced them, and Harry   
 was astonished to see that he was grinning, “they bit off a bit more than they  couldchew with Gran. Little old witchliving along,e the probablythought they  didn’t need to send anyone particularly powerful. Anyway,” Neville laughed,  “Dawlish is still in St. Mungo’s and Gran’s on the run. She sent me a letter”  he clapped a hand to the breast pocket of his robes, “telling me she was proud  of me, that I’m my parents’ son, and to keep it up.”   “Cool,” said Ron.   “Yeah,” said Neville happily. “Only thing was, once they realized they had  no hold over e, they decided Hogwarts could do without me after all. I don’t  know whether they were planning to kill me or send me to Azkaban, either  way,Iknewitwas timeto disappear.”   “But,” said Ron, looking thoroughly confused, “aren’t—aren’t we heading  straight backinto Hogwarts?”   “’Course,” said Neville. “You’ll see.We’re here.”   They turned a corner and there ahead of them was the end of the passage.  Another short flight of steps led to a door just like the one hidden behind Ariana’s  portrait. Nevillepusheditopenandclimbed through.AsHarry followed,  he heard Neville call out to unseen people:   “Look whoit is! Didn’tItell you?”   As Harry emerged into the room beyond the passage, there were several  screams and yells: “HARRY!” “It’sPotter, it’sPOTTER!” “Ron!” “Hermione!”   Hehadaconfused impressionof colored hangings,oflampsandmanyfaces.  The next moment, he, Ron, and Hermione were engulfed, hugged, pounded on  the back, their hair ruffled, their hands shaken, by what seemed to be more  than twenty people: They might just have won a Quidditchfinal.   “Okay, okay, calm down!” Neville called, and as the crowd backed away,  Harry was able to take in their surroundings.   He did not recognize the room at all. It was enormous, and rather looked  like the interior of a particularly sumptuous tree house, or perhaps a gigantic  ship’s cabin. Multicolored hammocks were strung from the ceiling and from a  balcony that ran around the dark wood-paneled and windowless walls, which   
 490 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    were covered in bright tapestry hangings: Harry saw the gold Gryffindor lion,  emblazoned on scarlet; the blackbadger of Hufflepuff, set against yellow; and  the bronze eagle of Ravenclaw, on blue. The silver and green of Slytherin alone  were absent. There were bulging bookcases,afew broomsticks propped against  the walls, and in the corner, a large wooden-cased wireless.   “Where are we?”   “Room of Requirement, of course!” said Neville. “Surpassed itself, hasn’t  it? The Carrows were chasing me, and I knew I had just one chance for a  hideout:Imanagedtoget throughthedoorandthisiswhatIfound!Well,it  wasn’texactlylikethiswhenIarrived,itwasaload smaller,therewasonlyone  hammockand just Gryffindor hangings, But it’s expanded as more and more of  theD.A.have arrived.”   “And the Carrows can’t get in?” asked Harry, looking around for the door.   “No,”saidSeamusFinnigan,whomHarryhadnot recognizeduntilhespoke:  Seamus’ face was bruised and puffy. “It’s a proper hideout, as long as one of us  stays in here, they can’t get at us, the door won’t open. It’s all down to Neville.  He really gets this room. You’ve got to ask it forexactly what you need—like,  “I don’t want any Carrow supporters to be able to get in—and it’ll do it for you!  You’ve just got to make sure you close the loopholes! Neville’s the man!”   “It’s quite straightforward, really,” said Neville modestly. “I’dbeen in here  about a day and a half, and getting really hungry, and wishing I could get  something to eat, and that’s when the passage to Hog’s Head opened up. I  went through it and met Aberforth. He’s been providing us with food, because  for some reason, that’s the one thing the room doesn’t really do.”   “Yea, well, food’s one of the five exceptions to Gamp’s Law of Elemental  Transfiguration,” said Ron to general astonishment.   “So we’ve been hiding out here for nearly two weeks,” said Seamus, “and it  even sprouted a pretty good bathroom once girls started turning up—”   “—and thought they’d quite like to wash, yes,” supplied Lavender Brown,  whom Harry had not noticed until that point. Now that he looked around  properly, he recognized many familiar faces. BothPatil twins were there, as   
 wereTerry Boot, Ernie Macmillan, Anthony Goldstein, and Michael Corner.   “Tell us what you’ve been up to,though,” said Ernie. “There’ve been so many  rumors, we’ve been trying to keep up with you on Potterwatch,” He pointed at  the wireless. “You didn’t break into Gringotts?”   “They did!” said Neville. “And the dragon’s true too!”   There was a smattering of applause and a few whoops; Ron took a bow.   “What were you after?” asked Seamus eagerly.   Before any of them could parry the question with one of their own, Harry  felt a terrible, scorching pain in the lightning scar. As he turned his back  hastily on the curious and delighted faces, the Room of Requirement vanished,  and he was standing inside some shack, an the rotting floorboards were ripped  apart at his feet, a disinterred golden box layopen and empty beside the hole,  andVoldemort’s screamof fury vibrated inside his head.   With an enormous effort he pulled out ofVoldemort’s mind again, back to  where he stood, swaying, in the Room of Requirement, sweat pouring from his  face and Ron holding him up.   “Are you all right, Harry?” Neville was saying. “Want to sit down? Iexpect  you’re tired, aren’t—?”   “No,” said Harry. He looked at Ron and Hermione, trying to tell them without  words thatVoldemort has just discovered the loss of one of the other Horcruxes.  Timewas runningout fast:IfVoldemortchoseto visitHogwarts next,  they would miss their chance.   “We need to get going,” he said, and their expression told him that they  understood.   “What are we going to do, then, Harry?” asked Seamus. “What’s the plan?”   “Plan?” repeatedHarry.Hewas exercisingallhis willpowerto preventhimself  succumbing again toVoldemort’s rage: His scarwas still burning. “Well,  there’s something we—Ron, Hermione, and I—need to do, and then we’ll get  out of here.”   Nobody was laughing or whooping anymore. Neville looked confused.   “What d’you mean, ’get out of here’?”   
 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    “Wehaven’t come backto stay,” said Harry,rubbing his scar,trying to soothe  the pain. “There’s something important we need to do—”   “What is it?”   “I—I can’t tell you.”   There was a ripple of muttering at this: Neville’s brows contracted.   “Why can’t you tell us? It’s something to do withfightingYou-Know-Who,  right?”   “Well, yeah—”   “Then we’ll help you.”   The other members of Dumbledore’s Army were nodding, some enthusiastically,  other solemnly. Acouple of them rose from their chairs to demonstrate  their willingness for immediate action.   “Youdon’t understand,”Harry seemedtohavesaidthatalotinthelastfew  hours.“We—we can’t tell you.We’vegottodo it—alone.”   “Why?” asked Neville.   “Because... ”Inhis desperationto startlookingforthe missing Horcrux,or  at least to have a private discussion with Ron and Hermione about where they  might commence their search, Harry found it difficult to gather his thoughts;  His scar was still searing. “Dumbledore left the three of us a job,” he said  carefully, “and we weren’t supposed to tell—I mean, he wanted us to do it, just  the three of us.”   “We’re his army,” said Neville. “Dumbledore’s Army. We were all in it together, we’ve been keeping it going while you three have been off on your own—  ”   “It hasn’t exactly been a picnic, mate,” said Ron.   “Ineversaidithad,butIdon’tseewhyyoucan’ttrustus. Everyoneinthis  room’s been fighting and they’ve been drivenin here because the Carrows were  hunting them down. Everyone in here’s proven they’re loyal to Dumbledore—  loyal to you.”   “Look,” Harry began, without knowing what he was going to say, but it did  not matter: the tunnel door had just opened behind him.   
 “We got your message, Neville! Hello, you three, I thought you must be  here!”   It was Luna and Dean. Seamus gave a great roar of delight and ran to hug  his best friend.   “Hi, everyone!” said Luna happily. “Oh, it’s great to be back!”   “Luna,” said Harry distractingly, “what are you doing here? How did you—  ?”   “I sent for her,” said Neville, holding up the fake Galleon. “I promised her  and Ginny that if you turned up I’dlet them know. We all thought that if you  came back, it would mean revolution. That we were going to overthrow Snape  and the Carrows.”   “Of course that’s what it means,” said Luna brightly, “Isn’t it, Harry?We’re  going to fight them out of Hogwarts?”   “Listen,” said Harry with a rising sense of panic, “I’m sorry, but that’s not  what we came backfor. There’s something we’ve got to do, and then—”   “You’re going to leave us in this mess?” demanded Michael Corner.   “No!” said Ron. “What we’re doing will benefit everyone in the end, it’s all  about tryingtogetridofYou-Know-Who—”   “Then let us help!” said Neville angrily. “We want to be a part of it!”   Therewas another noise behindthem, and Harry turned. His head seemed  to fall: Ginny was now climbing through the hole in the wall, closely followed  byFred,George,andLeeJordan. GinnygaveHarrya radiant smile:Hehad  forgotten, he had never fully appreciated, how beautiful she was, but he had  never been less please to see her.   “Aberforth’s gettingabit annoyed,”saidFred, raisinghishandin answerto  several cries of greeting. “He wants a kip, and his bar’s turned into a railway  station.”   Harry’s mouth fell open. Right behind Lee Jordan came Harry’s old girlfriend,  Cho Chang. She smiled at him.   “I got the message,” she said, holding up her own fake Galleon, and she  walked over to sit beside Michael Corner.   
 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    “So what’s the plan, Harry?” said George.   “There isn’t one,” said Harry, still disoriented by the sudden appearance of  all these people, unable to take everything in while his scar was still burning  so fiercely.   “Just going to make it up as we go along, are we? My favorite kind,” said  Fred.   “You’ve got to stop this!” Harry told Neville. “What did you call them all  backfor? This is insane—”   “We’re fighting aren’t we?” said Dean, taking out his fake Galleon. “The  message said Harry was back, and we were going to fight! I’ll have to get a  wand, though—”   “You haven’t got a wand—?” began Seamus.   Ron turned suddenly to Harry.   “Why can’t they help?”   “What?”   “They can help.” He dropped his voice and said, so that none of them could  hear but Hermione, who stood between then,“We don’t know whereitis,We’ve  gottofindit fast.We don’thavetotellthemit’sa Horcrux.”   Harry looked from Ron to Hermione, who murmured, “I think Ron’s right.  We don’t even know what we’re looking for, we need them.” And when Harry  looked unconvinced, “You don’t have to do everything alone, Harry.”   Harry thought fast, his scar still prickling, his head threatening to split  again. Dumbledore had warned against telling anyone but Ron and Hermione  about the Horcruxes. Secrets and lies, that’s how we grewup, and Albus...he  wasanatural... Washe turninginto Dumbledore,keepinghis secretsclutched  to his chest, afraid to trust? But Dumbledore had trusted Snape, and where  had that led?To murder at the top of the highest tower...   “All right,” he said quietly to the other two. “Okay,” he called to the room at  large, and all noise ceased: Fred and George, who had been cracking jokes for  the benefit of those nearest, fell silent, and all of them looked alert, excited.   “There’s something we need to find,” Harry said. “Something—something   
 495   that’ll help us overthrowYou-Know-Who. It’s here at Hogwarts, but we don’t  know where. It might have belonged to Ravenclaw. Has anyone heard of an  object like that? Has anyone ever come across something with her eagle on it,  for instance?”   He looked hopefullytowardthe little groupofRavenclaws,toPadma,Michael,  Terry, and Cho, but it was Luna who answered, perched on the arm of Ginny’s  chair.   “Well, that’s her lost diadem.Itold you about it, remember, Harry? The lost  diadem of Ravenclaw? Daddy’s trying to duplicate it.”   “Yeah, but the lost diadem,” said Michael Corner, rolling his eyes, “is lost,  Luna. That’s sort of the point.”   “When was it lost?” asked Harry.   “Centuries ago, they say,” said Cho, and Harry’s heart sank. “Professor  Flitwicksaysthe diadem vanishedwithRavenclawherself.Peoplehave looked,  but,” she appealed to her fellow Ravenclaws. “nobody’s ever found a trace of it,  have they?”   They all shook their heads.   “Sorry, but what is a diadem?” asked Ron.   “It’sa kindof crown,” saidTerry Boot. “Ravenclaw’swas supposedtohave  magical properties, enhance the wisdom of the wearer.”   “Yes, Daddy’s Wrackspurt siphons—”   But Harry cut across Luna.   “And none of you have ever seen anything that looks like it?”   They all shook their heads again. Harry looked at Ron and Hermione and  hisown disappointmentwas mirroredbackathim.Anobjectthathadbeenlost  this long, and apparently without trace, did not seem like a good candidate for  the Horcrux hiddeninthe caste.... Beforehe could formulatea new question,  however, Cho spoke again.   “If you’d like to see what the diadem’s supposed to look like, I could take  you up to our common room and show you, Harry. Ravenclaw’s wearing it in  her statue.”   
 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    Harry’s scar scorchedagain:Fora momenttheRoomof Requirementswam  before him, and he saw instead the dark earth soaring beneath him and felt  the great snake wrapped around his shoulders. Voldemort was flying again,  whether to the underground lake or here, to the castle, he did not know; Either  way, there was hardly any time left.   “He’s on the move,” he said quietly to Ron ad Hermione. He glanced at Cho  andthenback atthem. “Listen,Iknowit’snotmuchofalead,butI’mgoing  togoandlookatthis statue,atleastfindoutwhatthe diadem lookslike.Wait  for me here and keep, you know—the other one—safe,”   Cho had got to her feet, but Ginny said rather fiercely, “No, Luna will take  Harry, won’t you, Luna?”   “Oooh, yes, I’dlike to,” said Luna happily, and Cho sat down again, looking  disappointed.   “How do we get out?” Harry asked Neville.   “Over here.”   He lead Harry and Luna intoa corner, wherea small cupboard opened onto  a staircase.   “It comes out somewhere different every day, so they’ve never been able to  find it,” he said. “Only trouble is, we never know exactly where we’re going  to end up when we go out. Be careful, Harry, they’re always patrolling the  corridors at night.”   “No problem.” said Harry. “See you in a bit.”   He and Luna hurried up the staircase, which was long, lit by torches, and  turned corners in unexpected places. At last they reached what appeared to be  solid wall.   “Get under here,” Harry told Luna, pulling out the Invisibility Cloak and  throwing it over both of them. He gave the wall a little push.   It melted away at his touchand they slipped outside: Harry glanced back  and saw that it had resealed itself at once. They were standing in a dark corridor:  Harry pulled Luna backinto the shadows, fumbled in the poucharound  his neck, and took out the Marauder’s Map. Holding it close to his nose he   
 search, and located his and Luna’s dots at last.   “We’reuponthefifthfloor,”he whispered,watchingFilchmovingawayfrom  them, a corridor ahead. “Come on, this way.”   They crept off.   Harry had prowled the castle at night many times before, but never has his  heart hammered this fast, never had so much depended oh his safe passage  through the place. Through squares of moonlight upon the floor, past suits of  armor whose helmets creaked at the sound of their soft footsteps, around corners  beyond whichwho knew what lurked, Harry and Luna walked, checking  the Marauder’s Map whenever light permitted, twice pausing to allow a ghost  to pass without drawing attention to themselves. He expected to encounter an  obstacleatany moment;his worstfearwasPeeves,andhe strainedhis ears  with every step to hear the first, telltale signs of the poltergeist’s approach.   “This way, Harry,” breathed Luna, plucking his sleeve and pulling him toward  a spiral staircase.   Theyclimbedintight, dizzyingcircles;Harryhad neverbeenuphere before.  At last they reached a door. There was no handle and no keyhole: nothing but  a plain expanse of aged wood, and a bronze knocker in the shape of an eagle.   Luna reached out a pale hand, which looked eerie floating in midair, unconnected  to arm or body. She knocked once, and in the silence, it sounded to  Harry like a cannon blast. At once the beak of the eagle opened, but instead  of a bird’s call, a soft musical voice said, “Which came first, the phoenix or the  flame?”   “Hmm...Whatdoyou think, Harry?” saidLuna, looking thoughtful.   “What? Isn’t there just a password?”   “Oh no, you’ve got to answer a question,” said Luna.   “What if you get it wrong?”   “Well, you have to wait for somebody who gets it right,” said Luna. “That  wayyou learn, you see?”   “Yeah...Troubleis, wecan’treally affordtowaitfor anyoneelse,Luna.”   “No, I see what you mean,” said Luna seriously. “Well then, I think the   
 CHAPTER  29.  THE  LOST  DIADEM    answer is that a circle has no beginning.”   “Well reasoned,” said the voice, and the door swung open.   The deserted Ravenclaw common room was a wide, circular room, airier  than any Harry had ever seen at Hogwarts. Graceful etched windows punctuated  the walls, which were hung with blue-and-bronze silks; By day, the  Ravenclaws would have a spectacular view of the surrounding mountains. The  ceiling was domed and painted with stars, which were echoed in the midnight- blue carpet. There were tables, chairs, and bookcases, and in a niche opposite  the door stood a tall statue of white marble.   Harry recognized Rowena Ravenclaw from the bust he had seen at Luna’s  house. The statue stood beside a door that led, he guessed, to dormitories  above. He strode right up to the marble woman, and she seemed to look backat  him with a quizzical half smile on her face, beautiful yet slightly intimidating.  A delicate-looking circlet had been reproduced in marble on top of her head.  It was not unlike the tiara Fleur had worn at her wedding. There were tiny  wordsetchedintoit. Harry steppedoutfromunderthe Cloakandclimbedup  onto Ravenclaw’s plinth to read them.   “’Wit beyond measure is man’s greatest treasure.’”   “Whichmakes you pretty skint, witless,” said a cackling voice.   Harry whirled around, slipped off the plinth, and landed on the floor. The  sloping-shouldered figure of Alecto Carrow was standing before him, and even  as Harry raised his wand, she pressed a stubby forefinger to the skull and  snake branded on her forearm.   
 Chapter  30    The  Sacking  of  Severus  Snape    T T he moment her finger touched the Mark, Harry’s scar burned savagely,  the starry room vanished from sight, and he was standing  upon an overcrop of rockbeneath a cliff, and the sea was washing  around him and there was triumph in his heart—They have the boy.   Aloudbang brought Harry backto where he stood: Disoriented, he raised  his wand, but the witch before him was already falling forward; she hit the  ground so hard that the glass in the bookcases tinkled.   “I’ve never Stunned anyone exceptin ourD.A. lessons,” said Luna, sounding  mildly interested. “Thatwas noisier thanIthoughtit wouldbe.”   And sure enough, the ceiling had begun to tremble. Scurrying, echoing  footsteps were growing louder from behind the door leading to the dormitories:  Luna’s spell had woken Ravenclaws sleeping above.   “Luna, where are you?Ineed to get under the Cloak!”   Luna’s feet appeared out of nowhere; he hurried to her side and she let the  CloakfallbackoverthemasthedooropenedandastreamofRavenclaws,allin  their nightclothes, flooded into the common room. There were gasps and cries   o surprise as they sayAlecto lying there unconscious. Slowly they shuffled in  499   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    around her, a savage beast that might wake at any moment and attackthem.  Then one brave little first-year darted up to her and prodded her backside with  his big toe.   “I think she might be dead!” he shouted with delight.   “Oh, look,” whispered Luna happily, as the Ravenclaws crowded in around  Alecto. “They’re pleased!”   “Yeah... great...”   Harry closed his eyes, and as his scar throbbed he chose to sink again into  Voldemort’s mind.... Hewas moving along the tunnel into the first cave....  Hehadchosentomake sureofthelocket before coming...butthat wouldnot  take him long....   Therewasaraponthe commonroomdoorandeveryRavenclawfroze.From  the other side, Harry heard the soft, musical voice that issued from the eagle  door knocker: “WheredoVanished objects go?”   “Idunno,doI?Shutit!” snarledan uncouthvoicethatHarryknewwasthat  of the Carrow brother, Amycus. “Alecto? Alecto? Are you there? Have you got  him? Open the door!”   The Ravenclaws were whispering amongst themselves, terrified. Then,  without warning, there came a series of loud bangs, as though somebody was  firing a gun into the door.   “ALECTO! If he comes, and we haven’t got Potter—d’you want to go the  same way as the Malfoys? ANSWER ME!” Amycus bellowed, shaking the door  for all he was worth, but still it did not open. The Ravenclaws were all backing  away, and some of the most frightened began scampering backup the staircase  totheirbeds.Then,justasHarrywas wondering whetherheoughtnottoblast  the door open and Stun Amycus before the Death Eater could do anything else,  a second, most familiar voice rang out beyond the door.   “MayIask what you are doing, Professor Carrow?”   “Trying—to get—through this damned—door!” shouted Amycus. “Go and  get Flitwick! Get him to open it, now!”   “But isn’t your sister in there?” asked Professor McGonagall. “Didn’t Pro   
 501   fessor Flitwickletherin earlierthis evening,atyou urgent request?Perhaps   she could open the door for you? Then you needn’t wake up half the castle.”   “She ain’t answering, you old besom! Youopen it! Garn! Do it, now!”   “Certainly, if you wish it,” said Professor McGonagall, with awful coldness.  There was a gentle tap of the knocker and the musical voice asked again.   “WheredoVanished objects go?”   “Into nonbeing, whichis to say, everything.” replied Professor McGonagall.   “Nicely phrased,” replied the eagle door knocker, and the door swung open.   The few Ravenclaws who had remained behind sprinted for the stairs as  Amycus burst over the threshold, brandishing his wand. Hunched like his  sister, he had a pallid, doughy face and tiny eyes, whichfell at once on Alecto,  sprawled motionless on the floor. He let out a yell of fury and fear.   “What’ve they done, the little whelps?” he screamed. “I’ll Cruciate the lot  of ’em till they tell me who did it—and what’s the Dark Lord going to say?” he  shrieked, standing over his sister and smacking himself on the forehead with  his fist, “We haven’t got him, and they’ve gone and killed her!”   “She’sonly Stunned,” said Professor McGonagall impatiently,who had stooped  down to examine Alecto. “She’ll be perfectly all right.”   “No she bludgering well won’t!” bellowed Amycus. “Not after the Dark Lord  gets hold of her! She’s gone and sent for him, I felt me Mark burn, and he  thinks we’ve gotPotter!”   “GotPotter?” said Professor McGonagall sharply. “What do you mean, ’got  Potter’?”   “He told usPotter might try and get inside RavenclawTower, and to send  for him if we caught him!”   “Why would HarryPottertrytoget insideRavenclawTower?Potter belongs  in my House!”   Beneath the disbelief and anger, Harry heard a little strain of pride in her  voice, and affection for Minerva McGonagall gushed up inside him.   “We was told he might come in here!” said Carrow. “I dunno why, do I?”   Professor McGonagall stood up and her beady eyes swept the room. Twice   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    they passed right over the place where Harry and Luna stood.   “We can push it off on the kids,” said Amycus, his piglike face suddenly  crafty. “Yeah, that’s what we’ll do. We’ll sayAlecto was ambushed by the kids,  then kids up there”—he looked up at the starry ceiling toward the dormitories—  “and we’ll saythey forced her to press the Mark, and that’s why he got a false  alarm.... He can punish them. Couple of kids more or less, what’s the difference?”    “Only the difference between truth and lies, courage and cowardice,” said  Professor McGonagall, who had turned pale, “a difference, in short, whichyou  and your sister seem unable to appreciate. But let me make one thing very  clear. You are not going to pass off your many ineptitudes on the students of  Hogwarts.Ishall not permit it.”   “Excuse me?”   Amycus moved forward until he was offensively close to Professor McGonagall,  his face within inches of hers. She refused to back away, but looked down  at him as if he were something disgusting she had found stuck to a lavatory  seat.   “It’s not a case of what you’ll permit, Minerva McGonagall.You time’s over.  It’sus what’sinchargehere now,andyou’llback meuporyou’llpaytheprice.”   And he spat in her face.   HarrypulledtheCloakoffhimself,raisedhiswand,andsaid,“You shouldn’t  have done that.”   As Amycus spun around, Harry shouted, “Crucio!”   The Death Eater was lifted off his feet. He writhed through the air like a  drowning man, thrashing and howling in pain, and then, with a crunch and  a shattering of glass, he smashed into the front of a bookcase and crumpled,  insensible, to the floor.   “I see what Bellatrix meant,” said Harry, the blood thundering through his  brain, “you need to really mean it.”   “Potter!” whispered Professor McGonagall, clutching her heart. “Potter—  you’re here! What—?How—?” She struggled to pull herself together. “Potter,   
 that was foolish!”   “He spat at you,” said Harry.   “Potter, I—that was very—very gallant of you—but don’t you realize—?”   “Yeah,Ido,”Harry assuredher. Somehowherpanicsteadiedhim. “Professor  McGonagall,Voldemort’s on theway.”   “Oh, are we allowed to say the name now?” asked Luna with an air of  interest, pulling off the Invisibility Cloak. This appearance of a second outlaw  seemed to overwhelm Professor McGonagall, who staggered backward and fell  into a nearby chair, clutching at the neckof her old tartan dressing gown.   “I don’t think it makes any difference what we call him,” Harry told Luna.  “He already knows whereI am.”   Ina distantpartofHarry’sbrain,thatpart connectedtotheangry,burning  scar,he could seeVoldemort sailing fast overthe dark lakeinthe ghostly green  boat.... He had nearly reached the island where the stone basin stood....   “You must flee,” whispered Professor McGonagall. “Now,Potter, as quickly  as you can!”   “I can’t,” said Harry. “There’s something I need to do. Professor, do you  know where the diadem of Ravenclaw is?”   “The d—diadem of Ravenclaw? Of course not—hasn’t it been lost for centuries?”  She sat up a little straighter. “Potter, it was madness, utter madness,  for you to enter this castle—”   “I had to,” said Harry. “Professor, there’s something hidden here that I’m  supposed to find, and it could be the diadem—ificould just speak to Professor  Flitwick—”   There was a sound of movement, of clinking glass: Amycus was coming  around. Before Harry or Luna could act, Professor McGonagall rose to her  feet, pointing her want at the groggy Death Eater, and said, “Imperio.”   Amycus got up, walked over to his sister, picked up her wand, then shuffled  obediently to Professor McGonagall and handed it over along with his own.  Thenhelaydownonthe floor beside Alecto. Professor McGonagallwavedher  wand again, and a length of shimmering silver rope appeared out of thin air   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    and snaked around the Carrows, binding them tightly together.   “Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, turning to face him again with superb  indifference to the Carrows’ predicament. “if He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named  does indeed know that you are here—”   As she said it, a wrath that was like physical pain blazed through Harry,  setting his scar on fire, and for a second he looked down upon a basin whose  potion had turned clear, and saw that no golden locket lay safe beneath the  surface—   “Potter, are you all right?” said a voice, and Harry came back. He was  clutching Luna’s shoulder to steady himself.   “Time’s running out, Voldemort’s getting nearer. Professor, I’m acting on  Dumbledore’s orders,Imust find whathewantedmeto find! But we’vegotto  get the students out while I’m searching the castle—It’s meVoldemortwants,  buthewon’tcareaboutkillingafew moreorless,notnow—”’ not now he knows  I’m attacking Horcruxes. Harry finished the sentence in his head.   “You’re acting on Dumbledore’s orders?” she repeated withalookofdawning  wonder. Then she drew herself up to her fullest height.   “We shall secure the school against He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named while you  searchfor this—this object.”   “Is that possible?”   “I think so,” said Professor McGonagall dryly, “we teachers are rather good  at magic, you know. I am sure we will be able to hold him off for a while if we  all put out best efforts into it. Of course, something will have to be done about  Professor Snape—”   “Let me—”   “—and if Hogwarts is about to enter a stage of siege, with the Dark Lord at  the gates, it would indeed be advisable to take as manyinnocent people out of  theway as possible.With the Floo network under observation, and Apparition  impossible within the grounds—”   “There’saway,”saidHarryquickly,andhe explainedaboutthe passageway  leading into the Hog’s Head.   
 “Potter, we’re talking about hundreds of students—”   “Iknow, Professor,butifVoldemortandtheDeathEatersare concentrating  on the school boundaries they won’t be interested in anyone who’s Disapparating  out of Hog’s Head.”   “There’s something in that,” she agreed. She pointed her wand at the Car- rows, anda silver net fell upon their bound bodies, tied itself around them, and  hoisted them into the air, where they dangled beneaththe blue-and-gold ceiling  like two large, ugly sea creatures. “Come. We must alert the other Heads  of House.You’dbetter put that Cloak back on.”   She marched toward the door, and as she did so she raised herwand.From  the tip burst three silver cats with spectacle markings around their eyes. The  Patronuses ran sleekly ahead, filling the spiral staircase with silvery light, as  Professor McGonagall, Harry, and Luna hurried backdown.   Along the corridors they raced, and oneby one thePatronuses left them;  Professor McGonagall’s tartan dressing gown rustled over the floor, and Harry  and Luna jogged behind her under the Cloak.   They had descended two more floors when another set of quiet footsteps  joined theirs, Harry, whose scar was still prickling, heard them first. He felt  in the poucharound his neckfor the Marauder’s Map, but before he could take  it out, McGonagall too seemed to become aware of their company, She halted,  raised her wand ready to duel, and said, “Who’s there?”   “It is I,” said a low voice.   From behind a suit of armor stepped Severus Snape.   Hatred boiled up in Harry at the sight of him: He had forgotten the details  of Snape’s appearance in the magnitude of his crimes, forgotten how his greasy  blackhairhungin curtains aroundhisthinface,howhisblackeyeshadadead,  cold look. He was not wearing nightclothes, but was dressed in his usual black  cloak, and he too was holding his wand ready for a fight.   “Where are the Carrows?” he asked quietly.   “Wherever you told them to be,Iexpect, Severus,” said Professor McGonagall.    
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    Snape stopped nearer, and his eyes flitted over Professor McGonagall into  theair aroundher,asifheknewthatHarrywasthere.Harryhelduphiswand  tip too, ready to attack.   “I was under the impression,” said Snape, “that Alecto had apprehended an  intruder.”   “Really?” said Professor McGonagall. “And what gave you that impression?”   Snapemadeaslightflexing movementofhisleftarm,wheretheDarkMark  was branded into his skin.   “Oh, but naturally,” said Professor McGonagall. “You Death Eaters have  you own private meansof communication,Iforgot.”   Snape pretended not to have heard her. His eyes were still probing the air  allabouther,andhewasmoving graduallycloser,withanairofhardlynoticing  what he was doing.   “I did not know that it was you night to patrol the corridors, Minerva.”   “You have some objection?”   “I wonder what could have brought you out of you bed at this hour?”   “I thoughtIhearda disturbance,” said Professor McGonagall.   “Really? But all seems calm.”   Snape looked into her eyes.   “Haveyou seenHarryPotter, Minerva? Becauseifyouhave,Imust insist—  ”   Professor McGonagall moved faster than Harry could have believed: Her  wand slashed through the air and for a split second Harry thought that Snape  must crumple, unconscious, but the swiftness of his Shield Charm was such  that McGonagall was thrown off balance. She brandished her wand at a torch  on the wall and it flew out of its bracket. Harry, about to curse Snape, was  forced to pull Luna out of the wayof the descending flames, which became a  ring of fire that filled the corridor and flew like a lasso at Snape—   Thenitwasnolongerfire,butagreatblackserpentthat McGonagall blasted  to smoke, whichre-formed and solidified in seconds to become a swarm of pursuing  daggers. Snape avoided them only be forcing the suit of armor in front   
 of him, and with echoing clang, the dagger sank, one after another, into the  breast—   “Minerva!” said a squeaky voice, and looking behind him, still shielding  Luna from flying spells, Harry saw Professor Flitwick and Sprout sprinting  up the corridor toward them in the nightclothes, with the enormous Professor  Slughorn panting along at the rear.   “No!” squeaking Flitwick, raising his wand. “You’ll do more murder at  Hogwarts!”   Flitwick’s spell hit the suit of armor behind whichSnap had taken shelter:  With a clatter it came to life. Snape struggled free of the crushing arms and  sent it flying backtoward his attackers; Harry and Luna had to dive sideways  to avoid it as it smashed into the wall and shattered. When Harry looked up  again, Snape was in full flight, McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout all thundering  after him. He hurtled through a classroom door and, moments later, he  heard McGonagall cry, “Coward! COWARD!”   “What’s happened, what’s happened?” asked Luna.   Harry dragged her to her feet and they raced along the corridor, trailing the  invisibility Cloak behind them, into the deserted classroom where Professors  McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout were standing at a smashed window.   “He jumped,” said Professor McGonagall as Harry and Luna ran into the  room.   “You means he’s dead?” Harry sprinted to the window,ignoring Flitwick’s  and Sprout’s yells of shockat his sudden appearance.   “no, he’s not dead,” said McGonagall bitterly. “Unlike Dumbledore, he was  still carrying awand...andhe seems tohave learned afew tricks fromhis  master.”   With a tingle of horror, Harry saw in the distance a huge, batlike shape  flying through the darkness toward the perimeter wall.   There wereheavy footfalls behindthem,andagreatdealof puffing: Slughorn  had just caught up.   “Harry!” he panted, massaging his immense chest beneath his emerald   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    greensilkpajamas.“Mydearboy...whata surprise...Minerva,dopleaseexplain....  Severus... what...?”   “Our headmasteris takingashort break,” said Professor McGonagall, pointing  at the Snape-shaped hole in the windows.   “Professor!” Harry shouted, his hands at his forehead. He could see the  Inferi-filled lake sliding beneath him, and he felt the ghostly green boat bump  into the underground shore, andVoldemort leapt from it with murder in his  heart—   “Professor, we’ve got the barricade the school, he’s coming now!”   “Very well. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is coming,” she told the other  teachers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped; Slughorn let out a low groan. “Potter  has work to do in the castle on Dumbledore’s orders. We need to put in place  every protection of which we are capable whilePotter does what he needs to  do.”   “You realize, of course, that nothing we do will be able to keep out YouKnow- Who indefinitely?” said Professor Sprout.   “Thank you, Pomona,” said Professor McGonagall, and between the two  witches there passed a look of grim understanding. “I suggest we establish  basic protection around the place, then gather our students and meet in the  Great Hall. Most must be evacuated, though if any of those who are over age  wishtostayandfight,Ithinktheyoughttobegiventhechance.”   “Agreed,” said Professor Sprout, already hurrying toward the door. “I shall  meet you in the Great Hall in twenty minutes with my House.”   And as she jogged out of sight, they could hear her muttering, “Tentacula,  Devil’sSnare.And Snargaluffpod...yes,I’dliketoseetheDeathEatersfighting  those.”   “I can act from here,” said Flitwick, and although he could bare see out  of it, he pointed his wand through the smashed window and started muttering  incantationsof great complexity. Harry hearda weird rushing noise,as though  Flitwickhad unleashed the power of the wind into the grounds.   “Professor,” Harry said, approaching the little Charms master, “Professor,   
 I’m sorry to interrupt, but this is important. Have you got any idea where the  diadem of Ravenclaw is?”   “—Protego Horribilis—the diadem of Ravenclaw?” squeaked Flitwick. “A  little extra wisdom never goes amiss, Potter, but I hardly think it would be  much use in this situation!”   “I only meant—do you know where it is? Have you seen it?”   “Seen it? Nobody has seen it in living memory! Long since lost, my boy!”   Harry felt a mixture of desperate disappointment and panic. What, then,  was the Horcrux?   “We shall meet you and your Ravenclaws in the Great Hall, Filius!” said  Professor McGonagall, beckoning to Harry and Luna to follow her.   They had just reached the door when Slughorn rumbled into speech.   “My word,”he puffed, pale and sweaty, hiswalrus mustache aquiver. “What  a to-do! I’m not at all sure whether this is wise, Minerva. He is bound to find  a way in, you know, and anyone who has tried to delay him will be in most  grievous peril—”   “I shall expect you and the Slytherins in the Great hall in twenty minutes,  also,” said Professor McGonagall. “If you wish to leave with your students, we  shall not stop you. But if any of you attempt to sabotage our resistance or take  up arms against us within this castle, then, Horace, we duel to kill.”   “Minerva!” he said, aghast.   “The time has come for Slytherin House to decide upon its loyalties,” interrupted  Professor McGonagall. “Go and wake your students, Horace.”   Harry did not stayto watchSlughorn splutter: He and Luna ran after Professor  McGonagall, who had taken up a position in the middle of the corridor  and raised her wand.   “Piertotum—oh, for heaven’s sake,Filch, not now—”   The aged caretaker had just come hobbling into view, shouting, “Students  out of bed! Students in the corridors!”   “They’re supposed to be here, you blithering idiot!” shouted McGonagall.  “Nowgo anddo something constructive!FindPeeves!”   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    “P—Peeves?” stammered Filch as though he had never heard the name  before.   “Yes, Peeves, you fool, Peeves! Haven’t you been complaining about him for  a quarter of a century? Go and fetchhim, at once!”   Filchevidently thought Professor McGonagall had taken leave of her senses,  but hobbled away, hunch-shouldered, muttering under his breath.   “And now—Piertotum Locomotor!” cried Professor McGonagall.   And all along the corridor the statues and suits of armor jumped down from  their plinths, and from the echoing crashes from the floors above and below,  Harry knew that their fellows throughout the castle had done the same.   “Hogwarts is threatened!” shouted Professor McGonagall. “Maythe boundaries,  protect us, do your duty to our school!”   Clattering and yelling, the horde of moving statues stampeded past Harry  some of them smaller, some of them larger, than life. There were animals too,  and the clanking suits of armor brandished swords and spiked balls on chains.   “Now, Potter,” said McGonagall, “you and Miss Lovegood had better return  to you friends and bring them to the Great Hall—I shall rouse the other  Gryffindors.”   They partedatthetopofthe next staircase, Harryand Luna turningback  toward the concealed entrance to the Room of Requirement. As they ran, they  met crowds of students, most wearing traveling cloaks over their pajamas, being  shepherded down to the Great Hall by teachers and prefects.   “That wasPotter!”   “HarryPotter!”   “Itwas him,I swear,Ijust saw him!”   But Harry did not look back, and at last they reached the entrance to the  Roomof Requirement. Harry leaned against the enchantedwall, whichopened  to admit them, and he and Luna sped backdown the steep staircase.   “Wh—?”   As the room came into view, Harry slipped down a few stairs in shock. It  was packed, far more crowded than when he had last been in there. Kingsley   
 and Lupin were looking up at him, as were OliverWood, Katie Bell, Angelina  Johnson and Alicia Spinnet, Bill and Fleur, andMr. and Mrs.Weasley.   “Harry, what’s happening?” said Lupin, meeting him at the foot of the  stairs.   “Voldemort’son hisway,they’re barricading the school—Snape’s run for it—  What are you doing here? How did you know?”   “We sent messagestothe restof Dumbledore’sArmy,”Fred explained.“You  couldn’t expect everyone to miss the fun, Harry, and theD.A. let the Order of  the Phoenix know, and it all kind of snowballed.”   “What first, Harry?” called George. “What’s going on?”   “They’re evacuating the younger kids and everyone’s meeting in the Great  Hall to get organized,” Harry said. “We’re fighting.”   There was a great roar and a surge toward the foot of the stairs, he was  pressed back against the wall as they ran past him, the mingled members of  the Order of the Phoenix, Dumbledore’s Army,and Harry’s old Quidditchteam,  all with their wands drawn, heading up into the main castle.   “Come on, Luna,” Dean called as he passed, holding out his free hand; she  took it and followed him backup the stairs.   The crowd was thinning: Only a little knot of people remained below in the  Room of Requirement, and Harry joined them. Mrs. Weasley was struggling  with Ginny. Around them stood Lupin,Fred, George, Bill, and Fleur.   “You’re underage!” Mrs. Weasley shouted at her daughter as Harry approached.  “I won’t permit it! They boys, yes, but you, you’ve got to get home!”   “I won’t!”   Ginny’s hair flew as she pulled her arm out of her mother’s grip.   “I’m in Dumbledore’s Army—”   “Ateenagers’ gang!”   “Ateenagers’ gang that’s about to take him on, which no one she has dared  to do!” saidFred.   “She’s sixteen!” shouted Mrs. Weasley. “She’s not old enough! What you  two were thinking, bringing her with you—”   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    Fred and George looked slightly ashamed of themselves.   “Mum’s right, Ginny,” said Bill gently. “You can’t do this. Everyone underage  will have to leave, it’s only right.”   “I can’t go home!” Ginny shouted, angry tears sparkling in her eyes. “My  whole family’s here,Ican’t standwaiting there alone and not knowing and—”   Her eyes met Harry’s for the first time. She looked at him beseechingly, but  he shook his head and she turned awaybitterly,   “Fine,” she said, staring at the entrance to the tunnel back to the Hog’s  Head. “I’ll saygood-bye now, then, and—”   There was a scuffling and a great thump: Someone else had clambered out  of the tunnel, overbalanced slightly, and fallen. He pulled himself up on the  nearest chair, looked around through lopsided horn-rimmed glasses, and said,  “AmItoo late? Hasit started?Ionly just found out, so I—I—”   Percy spluttered into silence. Evidently he had not expected to run into  most of his family. There was a long moment of astonishment, broken by Fleur  turning to Lupin and saying, in a wildly transparent attempt to break the  tension, “So—’ow eez leetleTeddy?”   Lupin blinked at her, startled. The silence between theWeasleys seemed to  by solidifying, like ice.   “I—oh yes—he’s fine!” Lupin said loudly. “Yes,Tonks is with him—at her  mother’s—”   Percy and the otherWeasleys were still staring at one another, frozen.   “Here, I’ve got a picture!” Lupin shouted, pulling a photograph from inside  his jacket and showing it to Fleur and Harry, who saw a tiny baby with a tuft  of bright turquoise hair, waving fat fists at the camera.   “Iwasa fool!”Percy roared, so loudly that Lupin nearly dropped his photograph.“ Iwasan idiot,I wasa pompous prat,I was a—a—”   “Ministry-loving, family-disowning, power-hungry moron.” saidFred.   Percy swallowed.   “Yes,I was!”   “Well, you can’t say fairer that that,” said Fred, holding out his hand to   
 Percy.   Mrs. Weasley burst into tears. She ran forward, pushedFred aside, and  pulledPercyintoa stranglinghug,whilehepattedherontheback,hiseyeson  his father.   “I’m sorry, Dad.”Percy said.   Mr.Weasley blinked rather rapidly, then he too hurried to hug his son.   “What made you see sense,Perce?” inquired George.   “It’s been coming on for a while,” said Percy, mopping his eyes under his  glasseswitha cornerofhistravelingcloak. “ButIhadtofindaway outand  it’s not so easy at the Ministry, they’re imprisoning traitors all the time. I  managed to make contact with Aberforth and he tipped me off ten minutes ago  thatHogwartswasgoingtomakeafightforit,sohereI am.”   “Well, we do look to our prefects to take a lead at times such as these,” said  George in a good imitation of Percy’s most pompous manner. “Now let’s get  upstairs and fight, or all the good Death Eaters’ll be taken.”   “So, you’remy sister-in-law now?”saidPercy, shaking hands with Fleuras  they hurried off toward the staircase with Bill,Fred, and George.   “Ginny!” barked Mrs.Weasley.   Ginny has been attempting, under cover of the reconciliation, to sneak upstairs  too.   “Molly, how about this,” said Lupin. “Why doesn’t Ginny stayhere, then at  least she’ll be on the scene and know what’s going on, but she won’t be in the  middle of the fighting?”   “I—”   “That’sa good idea,” saidMr.Weasley firmly. “Ginny, you stayin this room,  you hear me?”   Ginny did not seem to like the idea much, but under her father’s unusually  stern gaze, she nodded. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin headed off for the  stairs as well.   “Where’s Ron?” asked Harry. “Where’s Hermione?”   “They must have gone up to the Great Hall already,” Mr. Weasley called   
 CHAPTER  30.  THE  SACKING  OF  SEVERUS  SNAPE    over his shoulder.   “I didn’t see them pass me,” said Harry.   “They said something about a bathroom,” said Ginny, “not long after you  left.”   “Abathroom?”   Harry strode across the room to an open door leading off the Room of Requirement  and checked the bathroom beyond. It was empty.   “You’re sure that they said bath—?”   But then his scar seared and the Room of Requirement vanished: He was  looking through the high wrought-iron gates with winded boars on pillars at  either side, looking through the dark grounds toward the castle, which was  ablaze with lights. Nagini laydraped over his shoulders. He was possessed of  that cold, cruel sense of purpose that preceded murder.   
 Chapter  31    The  Battle  of  Hogwarts    T T he enchanted ceilingof the Great Hallwas dark and scattered with  stars, and below it the four long House tables were lined with disheveled  students,someintravelingcloaks,othersin dressing gowns.  Here and there shone the pearly white figures of the school ghosts. Every eye,  living and dead,was fixed uponProfessor McGonagall, whowas speaking from  the raised platform at the top of the Hall. Behind her stood the remaining  teachers, including the palomino centaur,Firenze, and the membersof theOrder  of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight.   “—evacuation willbe overseenbyMr.Filchand MadamPomfrey. Prefects,  whenIgivethe word,you will organize your Houseand take yourcharges,in  an orderly fashion, to the evacuation point.”   Many of the students looked petrified. However, as Harry skirted the walls,  scanning the Gryffindor table for Ron and Hermione,Ernie Macmillan stood up  at the Hufflepuff table and shouted. “And what if we want to stayand fight?”   There was a smattering of applause.   “If you are of age, you maystay,” said Professor McGonagall.   “What about our things?” called a girl at the Ravenclaw table. “Our trunks,  our owls?”   “We have no time to collect possessions,” said Professor McGonagall. “The   515   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    important thing is to get you out of here safely.”   “Where’s Professor Snape?” shouted a girl from the Slytherin table.   “He has, to use the common phrase, done a bunk,” replied Professor McGonagall, andagreatcheer eruptedfromthe Gryffindors,Hufflepuffs,andRavenclaws.    Harry moved up the Hall alongside the Gryffindor table, still looking for  Ron and Hermione. As he paused, faces turned in his direction, and a great  deal of whispering broke out in his wake.   “We have already placed protection around the castle,” Professor McGonagallwassaying,“ butitis unlikelytoholdforverylong unlesswe reinforceit.I  must ask you,therefore, to move quickly and calmly, and so as your prefects—”   But her final words were drowned as a different voice echoed throughout  theHall.Itwashigh,cold,andclean. Therewasnotellingfromwhereitcame;  it seemed to issue from the walls themselves. Like the monster it had once  commanded, it might have lain dormant there for centuries.   “I know you are preparing to fight.” There were screams amongst the students,  some of whom clutched each other, looking around in terror for the  source of the sound. “Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do not  want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do not  want to spill magical blood.”   There was silence in the Hall now, the kind of silence that presses against  the eardrums, that seems too huge to be contained by walls.   “Give me HarryPotter,” saidVoldemort’s voice, “and none shall be harmed.  Give me HarryPotter, andIshall leave the school untouched. Give me Harry  Potter, and you should be rewarded.   “You have until midnight.”   The silence swallowed them all again. Every head turned, every eye in the  place seemed to have found Harry, to hold him frozen in the glare of thousands  of invisible beams. Then a figure rose from the Slytherin table and he recognizedPansyParkinson  as she raiseda shaking arm and screamed, “But he’s  there!Potter’s there! Someone grab him!”   
 Before Harry could speak, there was a massive movement. The Gryffindors  in front of him had risen and stood facing, not Harry, but the Slytherins. Then  the Hufflepuffs stood, and almost at the same moment, the Ravenclaws, all of  them,withtheirbackstoHarry,allofthemlookingtowardPansy instead,and  Harry, awe-struckand overwhelmed, saw wands emerging everywhere, pulled  from beneath cloaks and under sleeves.   “Thank you, MissParkinson,” said Professor McGonagallinaclipped voice.  “You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could  follow.”   Harry heard the grinding of benches and then the sound of the Slytherins  trooping out on the other side of the Hall.   “Ravenclaws, follow on!” cried Professor McGonagall.   Slowly the four tables emptied. The Slytherin table was completely deserted,  but a number of older Ravenclaws remained seated while their fellows  filed out; even more Hufflepuffs stayed behind, and half of remained in their  seats, necessitating Professor McGonagall’s descent from the teachers’ platform  to chivvy the underage on their way.   “Absolutely not, Creevey, go! And you,Peakes!”   Harry hurried over to theWeasleys, all sitting together at the Gryffindor  table.   “Where are Ron and Hermione?”   “Haven’t you found—?” began Mr.Weasley, looking worried.   But he broke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on the raised platform to  address those who had remained behind.   “We’ve only got half an hour until midnight, so we need to act fast! Abattle  plan has been agreed between the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order of  thePhoenix. Professors Flitwick, Sprout, and McGonagall are going to take  groups of fighters up to the three highest towers—Ravenclaw, Astronomy, and  Gryffindor—where they’ll have a good overview, excellent positions from which  to work spells. Meanwhile Remus”—he indicated Lupin—“Arthur”—he pointed  toward Mr. Weasley, sitting at the Gryffindor table—“andI will take groups   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    intothe grounds.We’ll need somebodyto organize defenseofthe entrancesof  the passageways into the school—”   “Sounds likeajobforus,” calledFred, indicating himselfand George,and  Kingsley nodded his approval.   “All right, leaders up hear and we’ll divide up the troops!”   “Potter,” said Professor McGonagall, hurrying up to him, as students flooded  the platform, jostling for position, receiving instructions, “Aren’t you supposed  tobe lookingfor something?”   “What? Oh,” said Harry, “oh yeah!”   He had almost forgotten about the Horcrux, almost forgotten that the battle  was being fought so that he could searchfor it: The inexplicable absence of Ron  and Hermione had momentarily driven every other thought from his mind.   “Thengo,Potter, go!”   “Right—yeah—”   Hesensedeyes followinghimasheranoutoftheGreatHallagain,intothe  entrance hall still crowded with evacuating students. He allowed himself to be  swept up the marble staircase with them, but at the top he hurried off along a  deserted corridor.Fear and panic wereclouding his thought processes. He tried  to calm himself,to concentrate on finding the Horcrux, but his thoughts buzzed  as frantically and fruitlessly as wasps trapped beneath a glass. Without Ron  and Hermione to help him he could not seem to marshal his ideas. He slowed  down, coming to a halt halfway along an empty passage, where he sat down  upon the plinth of a departed statue and pulled the Marauder’s Map out of the  poucharound his neck. He could not see Ron’s or Hermione’s names anywhere  on it, though the density of the crowd of dots now making its wayto the Room  of Requirement might, he thought, be concealing them. He put the map away,  pressedhishandsoverhisface,andclosedhiseyes,tryingto concentrate....   Voldemort thoughtI’dgoto RavenclawTower.   Thereitwas:asolidfact,theplaceto start.Voldemorthad stationedAlecto  Carrow in the Ravenclaw common room, and there could only be one explanation: Voldemort fearedthatHarry alreadyknewhis Horcruxwas connectedto   
 that house.   Buttheonlyobject anyone seemedto associatewithRavenclawwasthelost  diadem...and how could the Horcruxbe the diadem? Howwasit possible that  Voldemort, the Slytherin, had found the diadem that had eluded generations  of Ravenclaws? Who could have told him where to look, when nobody had seen  the diadem in living memory?   In living memory ....   Beneath his fingers, Harry’s eyes flew open again. He leapt up from the  plinth and tore backthe wayhe had come, now in pursuit of his one last hope.  The sound of hundreds of people marching towards the Room of Requirement  grew louder and louder as he returned to the marble stairs. Prefects were  shouting instructions,trying to keep trackof the students in their own Houses;  therewas muchpushing and shoving; Harry sawZacharias Smith bowling over  first years to get to the front of the queue; here and there younger students  were in tears, while older ones called desperately for friends or siblings ....   Harry caught sightofa pearly white figure drifting across the entrance hall  below and yelled as loudly as he could over the clamor.   “Nick! NICK!Ineed to talk to you!”   He forced his way back through the tide of students, finally reaching the  bottom of the stairs, where Nearly Headless Nick, ghost of GryffindorTower,  stood waiting for him.   “Harry! My dear boy!”   Nick made to grasp Harry’s hands with both of his own: Harry’s felt as  though they had been thrust into icy water.   “Nick,you’vegottohelpme. Who’stheghostofRavenclawTower?”   Nearly Headless Nicklooked surprised and a little offended.   “The GrayLady, of course; but if it is ghostly services you require—?”   “It’s got to be her—d’you know where she is?”   “Let’s see ....”   Nick’s head wobbled a little on his ruff as he turned hither and thither,  peering over the heads of the swarming students.   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    “That’s her over there, Harry, the young woman with the long hair.”   Harry looked in the direction of Nick’s transparent, pointing finger and saw  a tall ghost who caught sight of Harry looking at her, raised her eyebrows, and  drifted awaythrough a solid wall.   Harry ran after her. Once through the door of the corridor into which  she had disappeared, he saw her at the very end of the passage, still gliding  smoothly awayfrom him.   “Hey—wait—come back!”   She consented to pause, floating a few inches from the ground. Harry supposed  that shewas beautiful, with herwaist-length hair and floor-lengthcloak,  but she also looked haughty and proud. Close to, he recognized her as a ghost  he had passed several times in the corridor, but to whom he had never spoken.   “You’re the GrayLady?”   She nodded but did not speak.   “The ghostofRavenclawTower?”   “That is correct.”   Her tone was not encouraging.   “Please: Ineed some help. Ineed to know anything you can tell me about  the lost diadem.”   Acold smile curved her lips.   “I am afraid,” she said, turning to leave, “thatIcannot help you.”   “WAIT!”   He had not meant to shout, but anger and panic were threatening to overwhelm  him. He glanced at his watch as she hovered in front of him. It was a  quarter to midnight.   “This is urgent,” he said fiercely. “If that diadem’s at Hogwarts, I’ve got to  find it, fast.”   “You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem,” she said disdainfully.  “Generations of students have badgered me—”   “This isn’t about trying to get better marks!” Harry shouted at her. “It’s  aboutVoldemort—defeatingVoldemort—or aren’t you interestedin that?”   
 She could not blush, but her transparent cheeks became more opaque, and  her voice was heated as she replied, “Of course I—how dare you suggest—?”   “Well, help me, then!”   Her composure was slipping.   “It—it is not a question of—” she stammered. “My mother’s diadem—”   “Your mother’s?”   She looked angry with herself.   “WhenIlived,” she said stiffly,“Iwas HelenaRavenclaw.”   “You’re her daughter? But then, you must know what happened to it!”   “While the diadem bestows wisdom,” she said with an obvious effort to pull  herself together, “I doubt that it would greatly increase your chances of defeating  the wizard who calls himself Lord—”   “Haven’t I just told you, I’m not interested in wearing it!” Harry said  fiercely. “There’s no time to explain—but if you care about Hogwarts, if you  want to seeVoldemort finished, you’ve got to tell me anything you know about  the diadem!”   She remained quite still, floating in midair, staring down at him, and a  sense of hopelessness engulfed Harry. Of course, if she had known anything,  she would have told Flitwick or Dumbledore, who had surely asked her the  same question. He had shaken his head and made to turn away when she  spoke in a low voice.   “I stole the diadem from my mother.”   “You—you did what?”   “Istole the diadem,” repeated HelenaRavenclawinainawhisper.“I sought  to make myselfcleverer, more important thanmy mother.I ranawaywith it.”   He did not know how he had managed to gain her confidence and did not  ask; he simply listened, hard, as she went on.   “My mother, they say, never admitted that the diadem was gone, but pretended  that she had it still. She concealed her loss, my dreadful betrayal, even  from the other founders of Hogwarts.   “Thenmy motherfell ill-fatallyill.Inspiteofmy perfidy,shewas desperate   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me, though I  spurned his advances, to find me. She knew that he would not rest until he  had done so.”   Harry waited. She drew a deep breath and threw backher head.   “He trackedmetothe forest whereI was hiding. WhenIrefusedto return  with him, he became violent. The Baron was always a hot-tempered man.  Furious at my refusal, jealous of my freedom, he stabbed me.”   “The Baron?You mean—?”   “The Bloody Baron, yes,” said the GrayLady, and she lifted aside the cloak  sheworeto revealasingledarkwoundinherwhitechest. “Whenhesawwhat  he had done, he was overcome with remorse. He took the weapon that had  claimed my life, and used it to kill himself. All these centuries later, he wears  hischainsasanactof penitence...ashe should,”she added bitterly.   “And...andthe diadem?”   “It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron blundering  through the forest toward me. Concealed inside a hollow tree.”   “Ahollow tree?” repeated Harry. “What tree? Where was this?”   “Aforestin Albania. Alonely placeIthoughtwas far beyondmy mother’s  reach.”   “Albania,” repeated Harry. Sense was emerging miraculously from confusion,  and now he understood why she was telling him what she had denied  Dumbledore and Flitwick. “You’ve already told someone this story, haven’t  you? Another student?”   She closed her eyes and nodded.   “Ihad...no idea....Hewas...flattering.He seemedto...to understand  ...to sympathize.... ”   Yes, Harry thought, Tom Riddle would certainly have understood Helena  Ravenclaw’s desire to possess fabulous objects to whichshe had little right.   “Well, you weren’t the first person Riddle wormed things out of,” Harry muttered.  “He couldbecharming whenhewanted.... ”   SoVoldemort had managed to wheedle the location of the lost diadem out   
 of the Gray Lady. He had traveled to that far-flung forest and retrieved the  diadem from its hiding place, perhaps as soon as he left Hogwarts, before he  even started work at Borgin and Burkes.   And wouldn’t those secluded Albanian woods have seemed an excellent  refuge when, so much later, Voldemort had needed a place to lie low, undisturbed,  for ten long years?   But the diadem, once it became his precious Horcrux, had not been left in  that lowly tree.... No, the diadem had been returned secretly to its true home,  andVoldemort musthaveputit there—   “—the night he asked for a job!” said Harry, finishing his thought.   “I beg your pardon?”   “He hid the diadem in the castle, the night he asked Dumbledore to let him  teach!” said Harry. Saying it out loud enabled him to make sense of it all.  “He must’ve hidden the diadem on his wayup to, or down from, Dumbledore’s  office! But it was still worth trying to get the job—then he might’ve got the  chance to nickGryffindor’s sword as well ... thank you, thanks!”   Harry left her floating there, looking utterly bewildered. As he rounded the  corner backinto the entrance hall, he checked his watch. It was five minutes  until midnight, and though he now knew what the last Horcrux was, he was  no closer to discovering where it was.   Lostin desperate speculation,Harry turneda corner,buthehad takenonly  a few steps down the new corridor when the window to his left broke open  with a deafening, shattering crash. As he leapt aside, a gigantic body flew  in through the window and hit the opposite wall. Something large and furry  detached itself, whimpering, from the new arrival and flung itself at Harry.   “Hagrid!” Harry bellowed, fighting offFang the boarhound’s attentions as  the enormous bearded figure clambered to his feet. “What the—?”   “Harry, yer here! Yer here!”   Hagrid stooped down, bestowed upon Harrya cursory and rib-crackinghug,  then ran backto the shattered window.   “Good boy, Grawpy!” he bellowed through the hole in the window. “I’ll see   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    yer in a moment, there’s a good lad!”   Beyond Hagrid, out in the dark night, Harry saw bursts of light in the distanceandheardaweird, keening scream. Helookeddownathiswatch.Itwas  midnight. The battle had begun.   “Blimey, Harry,” panted Hagrid, “this is it, eh? Time ter fight?”   “Hagrid, where have you come from?”   “Heard You-Know-Who from up in our cave,” said Hagrid grimly. “Voice  carried, didn’ it? ‘Yeh got till midnight ter gimmePotter.’ Knew yeh mus’ be  here, knew what mus’ be happenin’. Get down,Fang. So we come ter join in,  me an’ Grawpy an’Fang. Smashed ourwaythrough the boundarybythe forest,  Grawpywas carryin’us,Fangan’me.Toldhimterletmedownatthe castle,  so he shoved me through the window, bless him. Not exac’ly what I meant,  bu’—where’s Ron an’ Hermione?”   “That,” said Harry, “is a really good question. Come on.”   They hurried togetheralongthe corridor,Fang lollopingbeside them. Harry  could hear movement through the corridors all around: running footsteps,  shouts; through the windows, he could see more flashes of light in the dark  grounds.   “Where’re we goin’?” puffed Hagrid, pounding along at Harry’s heels, making  the floorboards quake.   “I dunno exactly,” saidHarry, making another random turn, “but Ron and  Hermione mustbe around here somewhere.... ”   The first casualties of the battle were already strewn across the passage  ahead: The two stone gargoyles that usually guarded the entrance to the staffroom  had been smashed apartbya jinx that had sailed through another broken window.  Their remains stirred feebly on the floor, and as Harry leapt over one of  their disembodied heads, it moaned faintly. “Oh, don’t mind me ... I’ll just lie  here and crumble....”   Its ugly stone face made Harry think suddenly of the marble bust of Rowena  Ravenclaw at Xenophilius’s house, wearing that mad headdress—and then of  the statueinRavenclawTower,withthe stone diademuponherwhite curls....   
 Andashe reachedtheendofthe passage,the memoryofa thirdstone effigy  came backto him: that of an ugly old warlock, onto whose head Harry himself  had placed a wig and a battered old tiara. The shockshot through Harry with  the heat of firewhisky, and he nearly stumbled.   Heknew,atlast, wherethe Horcruxsatwaitingforhim....   Tom Riddle, who confided in no one and operated alone, might have been  arrogant enough to assume that he, and only he, had penetrated the deepest  mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course, Dumbledore and Flitwick, those  model pupils, had never set foot in that particular place, but he, Harry, had  strayed off the beaten trackin his time at school—here at last was a secret he  andVoldemort knew, that Dumbledore had never discovered—   He was roused by Professor Sprout, who was thundering past followed by  Neville and half a dozen others, all of them wearing earmuffs and carrying  what appeared to be large potted plants.   “Mandrakes!” Neville bellowed at Harry over his shoulder as he ran. “Going  to lob them over the walls—they won’t like this!”   Harry knew now where to go. He sped off, with Hagrid andFang galloping  behind him. They passed portrait after portrait, and the painted figures  raced alongside them, wizards and witches in ruffs and breeches, in armor and  cloaks, cramming themselves into eachothers’ canvases, screaming news from  other parts of the castle. As they reached the end of this corridor, the whole  castle shook, and Harry knew, as a gigantic vase blew off its plinth with explosive  force, that it was in the grip of enchantments more sinister than those of  the teachers and the Order.   “It’s all righ’,Fang—it’s all righ’!” yelled Hagrid, but the great boarhound  had taken flight as slivers of china flew like shrapnel through the air, and  Hagrid pounded off after the terrified dog, leaving Harry alone.   He forged on through the trembling passages, his wand at the ready, and  for the length of one corridor the little painted knight, Sir Cadogan, rushed  from painting to painting beside him, clanking along in his armor, screaming  encouragement, his fat little pony cantering behind him.   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    “Braggarts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive them out, HarryPotter,  see them off!”   HarryhurtledaroundacornerandfoundFredandasmallknotofstudents,  including LeeJordan and Hannah Abbott, standing beside another empty plinth,  whose statuehadconcealeda secret passageway. Theirwands weredrawnand  they were listening at the concealed hole.   “Nice night for it!” Fred shouted as the castle quaked again, and Harry  sprinted by, elated and terrified in equal measure. Along yet another corridor  he dashed, and then there were owls everywhere, and Mrs. Norris was hissing  and trying to bat them with her paws, no doubt to return them to their proper  place ....   “Potter!”   Aberforth Dumbledore stood blocking the corridor ahead, his wand held  ready.   “I’vehad hundredsof kinds thundering throughmypub,Potter.”   “I know, we’re evacuating,” Harry said, “Voldemort’s—”   “—attacking because they haven’t handed you over, yeah,” said Aberforth.  “I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any  of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of Death Eaters you’ve  justsenttosafety.Wouldn’tithavebeenabit smartertokeep’emhere?”   “It wouldn’t stop Voldemort,” said Harry, “and your brother would never  have done it.”   Aberforth grunted and tore awayin the opposite direction.   Your brother would never have done it .... Well,itwas the truth, Harry  thought as he ran on again: Dumbledore, who had defended Snape for so long,  would neverhave held students ransom ....   And then he skidded around a final corner and with a yell of mingled relief  and fury he saw them: Ron and Hermione, both with their arms full of large,  curved, dirty yellow objects, Ron with a broomstickunder his arm.   “Where the hell have you been?” Harry shouted.   “Chamber of Secrets,” said Ron.   
 “Chamber—what?” said Harry, coming to an unsteady halt before them.   “It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione breathlessly. “Wasn’t it absolutely  brilliant? Therewe were,afteryouleft,andIsaidtoRon, evenifwehad  the other one,how arewegoingtogetridofit?We still hadn’t gottenridofthe  cup! And then he thought of it! The basilisk!”   “What the—?”   “Something to get rid of Horcruxes,” said Ron simply.   Harry’s eyes dropped to the objects clutched in Ron and Hermione’s arms:  great curved fangs, torn, he now realized, from the skull of a dead basilisk.   “But how did you get in there?” he asked, staring from the fangs to Ron.  “You need to speakParseltongue!”   Ron made a horrible strangled hissing noise.   “It’s what you did to open the locket,” he told Harry apologetically. “I had to  have a few goes to get it right, but,” he shrugged modestly, “we got there in the  end.”   “He was amazing!” said Hermione, “Amazing!”   “So... ”Harrywas strugglingtokeepup.“So... ”   “So we’re another Horcrux down,” said Ron, and from under his jacket  he pulled the mangled remains of Hufflepuff’s cup. “Hermione stabbed it.  Thought she should. She hasn’t had the pleasure yet.”   “Genius!” yelled Harry.   “It was nothing,” said Ron, though he looked delighted with himself. “So  what’s new with you?”   As he said it, there was an explosion from overhead: All three of them  looked up as dust fell from the ceiling and they heard a distant scream.   “I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where it is,” said Harry,  talking fast. “He hid it exactly whereIhid my oldPotions book, where everyone’s  been hiding stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only one to find it.  Come one.”   “As the walls trembled again, he led the other two back through the concealed  entrance and down the staircase into the Room of Requirement. It was   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    empty except for three women: Ginny, Tonks, and an elderly witch wearing  a moth-eaten hat, whom Harry recognized immediately as Neville’s grandmother.    “Ah,Potter,” she said crisply asif she had beenwaiting for him. “You can  tell us what’s going on.”   “Is everyone okay?” said Ginny andTonks together.   “’S far as we know,” said Harry. “Are there still people in the passage to the  Hog’s Head?”   He knew that the room would not be able to transform while there were still  users inside it.   “Iwas the last to come through,” said Mrs. Longbottom. “I sealed it,Ithink  it unwise to leave it open now Aberforth has left his pub. Have you seen my  grandson?”   “He’s fighting,” said Harry.   “Naturally,” said the old lady proudly. “Excuse me, I must go and assist  him.”   With surprising speed she trotted off toward the stone steps.   Harry looked atTonks.   “I thoughtyou were supposedtobewithTeddyatyour mother’s?”   “I couldn’t stand not knowing—“Tonks looked anguished. “She’ll look after  him—have you seen Remus?”   “He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the grounds—“   Without another word,Tonks sped off.   “Ginny,” said Harry, “I’m sorry, but we need you to leave too. Just for a bit.  Then you can come backin.”   Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary.   “And then you can come back in!” he shouted after her as she ran up the  steps afterTonks. “You’ve got to come backin!”   “Hang on a moment!” said Ron sharply. “We’ve forgotten someone!”   “Who?” asked Hermione.   “The house-elves, they’ll all be down in the kitchen, won’t they?”   
 “You mean we ought to get them fighting?” asked Harry.   “No,” said Ron seriously, “I mean we should tell them to get out. We don’t  want anymore Dobbies,dowe?Wecan’torderthemtodieforus—“   There was a clatter as the basilisk fangs cascaded out of Hermione’s arms.  Running at Ron, she flung them around his neck and kissed him full on the  mouth. Ron threw away the fangs and broomstick he was holding and responded  with suchenthusiasm that he lifted Hermione off her feet.   “Is this the moment?” Harry asked weakly, and when nothing happened  except that Ron and Hermione gripped eachother still more firmly and swayed  on the spot, he raised his voice. “Oi! There’s a war going on here!”   Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still around eachother.   “I know, mate,” said Ron, who looked as though he had recently been hit on  the backof the head with a Bludger, “so it’s now or never, isn’t it?”   “Never mind that, what about the Horcrux?” Harry shouted. “D’you think  you could just—just hold it in until we’ve got the diadem?”   “Yeah—right—sorry—“ saidRon, and he and Hermione set about gathering  up fangs, both pink in the face.   It was clear, as the three of them stepped back into the corridor upstairs,  that in the minutes that they had spent in the Room of Requirement the situation  within the castle had deteriorated severely: The walls and ceiling were  shaking worse than ever; dust filled the air, and through the nearest window,  Harry saw bursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the castle that  he knew the Death Eaters must be very near to entering the place. Looking  down, Harry saw Grawp the giant meandering past, swinging what looked like  a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and roaring his displeasure.   “Let’s hope he steps on some of them!” said Ron as more screams echoed  from close by.   “As long as it’s not any of our lot!” said a voice: Harry turned and saw  GinnyandTonks,bothwiththeirwandsdrawnatthenext window,which was  missing several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny sent a well-aimed jinx into  a crowd of fighters below.   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    “Good girl!” roared a figure running through the dust toward them, and  Harry saw Aberforth again, his gray hair flying as he led a small group of  students past. “They look like they might be breaching the north battlements,  they’ve brought giants of their own.”   “Have you seen Remus?”Tonks called after him.   “He was dueling Dolohov,” shouted Aberforth, “haven’t seen him since!”   “Tonks,” said Ginny, “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay—“   ButTonks had run off into the dust after Aberforth.   Ginny turned, helpless, to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.   “They’ll be all right,” said Harry, though he knew they were empty words.  “Ginny, we’ll be backin a moment, just keep out of the way, keep safe—come  on!” he said to Ron and Hermione, and they ran back to the stretch of wall  beyond which the Room of Requirement was waiting to do the bidding of the  next entrant.   Ineed the place where everything is hidden. Harry begged of it inside his  head, and the door materialized on their third run past.   The furor of the battle died the moment they crossed the threshold and  closed the door behind them: All was silent. They were in a place the size of  a cathedral with the appearance of a city, its towering walls built of objects  hidden by thousands of long-gone students.   “And he never realized anyone could get in?” said Ron, his voice echoing in  the silence.   “He thought he was the only one,” said Harry. “Too bad for him I’ve had to  hide stuffinmytime...thisway,”he added.“I thinkit’sdown here....”   He passed the stuffed troll and theVanish Cabinet Draco Malfoy had mended  last year with such disastrous consequenecs, then hesitated, looking up and  down aislesofjunk;he couldnot rememberwetogo next....   “Accio Diadem!” cried Hermioen in desperation, but nothing flew through  the air toward them. It seemed that, like the vault at Gringotts, the room  would not yield its hidden objects that easily.   “Let’s split up.” Harry told the other two. “Look for a stone bust of an old   
 531   man wearing a wig an a tiara! It’s standing on a cupboard and it’s definitely  somewhere around here....”   They sped off up adjacent aisles; Harry could hear the others’ footsteps echoing  through the towering piles of junk, of bottles, hats, crates, chairs, books,  weapons, broomsticks, bats....   “Somewhere near here,” Harry mutteredto himself. “Somewhere... somewhere  ... ”   Deeper and deeper into the labyrinth he went, looking for objects he recognized  from his one previous trip into the room. His breath was loud in his  ears, and then his very soul seemed to shiver. There it was, right ahead, the  blisteredold cupboardinwhichhehad hiddenhisoldPotionsbook,andontop  of it, the pockmarked stone warlockwearing a dusty old wig and what looked  like an ancient discolored tiara.   He had already stretched out his hand, though he remained few feet away,  whena voice behindhimsaid, “Holdit,Potter.”   He skidded to a halt and turned around. Crabbe and Goyle were standing  behind him, shoulder to shoulder, wands pointing right at Harry. Through the  small space between their jeering faces he saw Draco Malfoy.   “That’smywandyou’reholding,Potter,”saidMalfoy,pointinghisownthrough  the gap between Crabbe and Goyle.   “Not anymore,” panted Harry, tightening his grip on the hawthorn wand.  “Winners, keepers, Malfoy. Who’s lent you theirs?”   “My mother,” said Draco.   Harry laughed, though there was nothing very humorous about the situation.  He could not hear Ron or Hermione anymore. They seemed to have run  out of earshot, searching for the diadem.   “So how come you three aren’t withVoldemort?” asked Harry.   “We’re gonna be rewarded,” said Crabbe. His voice was surprisingly soft  for such an enormous person: Harry had hardly ever heard him speak before.  Crabbe was speaking like a small child promised a large bag of sweets. “We  ’ungback,Potter.We decidednottogo. Decidedtobringyouto’im.”   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    “Good plan,” said Harry in mockadmiration. He could not believe that he  was this close, and was going to be thwarted by Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. He  began edging slowly backward toward the place where the Horcrux sat lopsided  uponthebust.Ifhecouldjustgethishandsonit beforethefightbrokeout...   “So how did you get in here?” he asked, trying to distract them.   “I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last year,” said Malfoy,  his voice brittle. “I know how to get in.”   “We was hiding in the corridor outside,” grunted Goyle. “We can do Disslusion  Charms now! And then,” his face split into a gormless grin, “you turned  up right in front of us and said you was looking for a die-dum! What’s a die- dum?”   “Harry?” Ron’s voice echoed suddenly from the other side of the wall to  Harry’s right. “Are you talking to someone?”   Witha whiplike movement, Crabbe pointed hiswand at the fifty foot mountain  of old furniture,of broken trunks,of old books and robes and unidentifiable  junk, and shouted, “Descendo!”   The wall began to totter, then the top third crumbled into the aisle next  door where Ron stood.   “Ron!” Harry bellowed, as somewhere out of sight Hermione screamed, and  Harry heard innumerable objects crashing to the floor on the other side of the  destabilized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart, cried, “Finite!” and it  steadied.   “No!” shouted Malfoy, staying Crabbe’s arm as the latter made to repeat his  spell. “If you wreckthe room you might bury this diadem thing!”   “What’s that matter?” said Crabbe, tugging himself free. “It’s Potter the  Dark Lord wants, who cares about a die-dum?”   “Potter came in here to get it,” said Malfoy with ill-disguised impatience at  the slow-wittedness of his colleagues. “so that must mean—“   “’Must mean’?” Crabbe turned on Malfoy with undisguised ferocity. “Who  cares what you think? Idon’t take your orders no more, Draco. You an’ your  dad are finished.”   
 “Harry?” shouted Ron again, from the other side of the junk wad. “What’s  going on?”   “Harry?” mimicked Crabbe. “What’s going on—no,Potter! Crucio!”   Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbe’s curse missed him but hit the stone  bust, whichflew into the air; the diadem soared upward and then dropped out  of sight in the mass of objects on whichthe bust had rested.   “STOP!” Malfoy shouted at Crabbe, his voice echoing through the enormous  room. “The Dark Lord wants him alive—“   “So? I’m not killing him, am I?” yelled Crabbe, throwing off Malfoy’s restraining  arm. “But if I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway,  what’s the diff—?”   Ajet of scarlet light shot past Harryby inches: Hermione had run around  the corner behind him and sent a Stunning Spell straight at Crabbe’s head. It  only missed because Malfoy pulled him out of the way.   “It’s that Mudblood!AvadaKedavra!”   Harry saw Hermione dive aside, and his fury that Crabbe had aimed to kill  wiped all else from his mind. He shot a Stunning Spell at Crabbe, who lurched  out of the way, knocking Malfoy’s wand out of his hand; it rolled out of sight  beneath a mountain of broken furniture and bones.   “Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!” Malfoy yelled at Crabbe and Goyle,  who were both aiming at Harry: Their split second’s hesitation was all Harry  needed.   “Expelliarmus!”   Goyle’s wand flew out of his hand and disappeared into the bulwark of objects  beside him; Goyle leapt foolishly on the spot, trying to retrieve it; Malfoy  jumped out of range of Hermione’s second Stunning Spell, and Ron, appearing  suddenly at the end of the aisle, shot a full Body-Bind Curse at Crabbe, which  narrowly missed.   Crabbe wheeled around and screamed, “AvadaKedavra!” again. Ron leapt  outofsighttoavoidthejetofgreenlight.Thewand-lessMalfoy coweredbehind  a three-leggedwardrobe as Hermionecharged toward them, hitting Goyle with   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    a Stunning Spell as she came.   “It’s somewhere here!” Harry yelled at her, pointing at the pile of junk into  whichthe old tiara had fallen. “Look forit whileIgo and help R—“   “HARRY!” she screamed.   A roaring, billowing noise behind him gave him a moment’s warning. He  turned and saw both Ron and Crabbe running as hard as they could up the  aisle toward them.   “Like it hot, scum?” roared Crabbe as he ran.   But he seemed to have no control over what he had done. Flames of abnormal  size were pursuing them, licking up the sides of the junk bulwarks, which  were crumbling to soot at their touch.   “Aguamenti!” Harry bawled, but the jet of water that soared from the tip of  his wand evaporated in the air.   “RUN!”   Malfoy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him along; Crabbe outstripped  all of them, now looking terrified; Harry, Ron, and Hermione pelted  along in his wake, and the fire pursued them. It was not normal fire; Crabbe  had used a curse of which Harry had no knowledge. As they turned a corner  the flameschased them as though they were alive,sentient, intent upon killing  them.Nowthefirewasmutating,formingagiganticpackoffiery beasts: Flaming  serpents, chimaeras, and dragons rose and fell and rose again, and the detritus  of centuries on whichthey were feeding was thrown up into the air into  their fanged mouths, tossed high on clawed feet, before being consumed by the  inferno.   Malfoy,Crabbe,and Goyle had vanished from view: Harry,Ron and Hermione  stopped dead; the fiery monsters were circling them, drawingcloser andcloser,  claws and horns and tails lashed, and the heatwas solid asawall around them.   “What can we do?” Hermione screamed over the deafening roars of the fire.  “What can we do?”   “Here!”   Harry seized a pair of heavy-looking broomsticks from the nearest pile of   
 junk and threw one to Ron, who pulled Hermione onto it behind him. Harry  swung his leg over the second broom and, with hard kicks to the ground, they  soared up in the air, missing by feet the horned beak of a flaming raptor that  snapped its jaws at them. The smoke and heat were becoming overwhelming:  Below them the cursed fire was consuming the contraband of generations of  hunted students, the guilty outcomes of a thousand banned experiments, the  secrets of the countless souls who had sought refuge in the room. Harry could  not see a trace of Malfoy, Crabbe, or Goyle anywhere. He swooped as low as he  dare over the marauding monsters of flame to try to find them, but there was  nothingbut fire: Whata terriblewaytodie....Hehad neverwanted this....   “Harry, let’s get out, let’s get out!” bellowed Ron, though it was impossible  to see where the door was through the blacksmoke.   And then Harry heard a thin, piteous human scream from amidst the terrible  commotion, the thunder of devouring flame.   “It’s—too—dangerous—!” Ron yelled, but Harry wheeled in the air. His  glasses giving his eyes some small protection from the smoke, he raked the  firestorm below, seeking a sign of life, a limb or a face that was not yet charred  like wood....   And he saw them: Malfoy with his arms around the unconscious Goyle, the  pair of them perched on a fragile tower of charred desks, and Harry dived.  Malfoy saw him coming and raised one arm, but even as Harry grasped it he  knew at once that it was no good. Goyle was too heavy and Malfoy’s hand,  covered in sweat, slid instantly out of Harry’s—   “IFWEDIEFORTHEM,I’LLKILLYOU,HARRY!”roaredRon’svoice,and,  as a great flaming chimaera bore down upon them, he and Hermione dragged  Goyle onto their broom and rose, rolling and pitching, into the air once more as  Malfoy clambered up behind Harry.   “The door, get to the door, the door!” screamed Malfoy in Harry’s ear, and  Harry sped up, following Ron, Hermione, and Goyle through the billowing  blacksmoke, hardly able to breathe: and all around them the last few objects  unburned by the devouring flames were flung into the air, as the creatures of   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    the cursed fire cast them high in celebration: cups and shields, a sparkling  necklace, and an old, discolored tiara—   “What are you doing, what are you doing, the door’s that way!” screamed  Malfoy, but Harry made a hairpin swerve and dived. The diadem seemed to  fallin slow motion, turning and glittering asit dropped toward the mawofa  yawning serpent, and then he had it, caught it around his wrist—   Harry swerved again as the serpent lunged at him; he soared upward and  straight toward the place where,he prayed, the door stood open; Ron, Hermione  and Goyle had vanished; Malfoy was screaming and holding Harry so tightly  it hurt. Then, through the smoke, Harry saw a rectangular patch on the wall  and steered the broom at it, and moments later clean air filled his lungs and  they collided with the wall in the corridor beyond.   Malfoy fell off the broom and layfacedown, gasping, coughing, and retching.  Harry rolled over and sat up: The door to the Room of Requirement had  vanished, and Ron and Hermione sat panting on the floor beside Goyle, who  was still unconscious.   “C-Crabbe,”choked Malfoyas soonashe could speak. “C-Crabbe ... ”   “He’s dead,” said Ron harshly.   There was silence, apart from panting and coughing. Then a number of  huge bangs shook the castle, and a great cavalcade of transparent figures galloped  past on horses, their heads screaming with bloodlust under their arms.  Harry staggered to his feet when the Headless Hunt had passed and looked  around: The battle was still going on all around him. He could hear more  scream than thoseof the retreating ghosts.Panic flared within him.   “Where’s Ginny?” he said sharply. “She was here. She was supposed to be  going backinto the Room of Requirement.”   “Blimey, d’you reckon it’ll still work after that fire?” asked Ron, but he too  got to his feet, rubbing his chest and looking left and right. “Shall we split up  and look—?”   “No,” said Hermione, getting to her feet too. Malfoy and Goyle remained  slumped hopelessly on the corridor floor; neither of them had wands. “Let’s   
 sticktogether.I say we go—Harry, what’s that on your arm?”   “What? Oh yeah—“   He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It was still hot, blackened  with soot, but as he looked at it closely he was just able to make out the  tiny words etched upon it; WIT BEYOND MEASURE IS MAN’SGREATEST  TREASURE.   A bloodlike substance, dark and tarry, seemed tobe leaking from the diadem.  Suddenly Harry felt the thing vibrate violently, then break apart in his  hands, and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest, most distant scream  of pain, echoing not from the grounds or the castle, but from the thing that had  just fragmented in his fingers.   “It must have beenFiendfyre!” whimpered Hermione, her eyes on the broken  piece.   “Sorry?”   “Fiendfyre-cursed fire—it’s one of the substances that destroy Horcruxes,  butIwould never, ever have dared use it, it’s so dangerous—how did Crabbe  know how to—?”   “Must’ve learned from the Carrows,” said Harry grimly.   “Shame he wasn’t concentrating when they mentioned how to stop it, really,”  said Ron, whose hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face was  blackened. “If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’dbe quite sorry he was dead.”   “But don’t you realize?” whispered Hermione. “This means, if we can just  get the snake—“   But she broke off as yells and shouts and the unmistakable noises of dueling  filled the corridor. Harry looked around and his heart seemed to fail: Death  Eaters had penetrated Hogwarts. Fred andPercy had just backed into view,  both of them dueling masked and hooded men.   Harry, Ron, and Hermione ran forward to help: Jets of light flew in every  direction and the man duelingPercy backed off, fast: Then his hood slipped  and they saw a high forehead and streaked hair—   “Hello, Minister!” bellowed Percy, sending a neat jinx straight at Thick   
 CHAPTER  31.  THE  BATTLE  OF  HOGWARTS    nesse, who dropped his wand and clawed at the front of his robes, apparently  inawful discomfort. “DidImention I’m resigning?”   “You’re joking, Perce!” shouted Fred as the Death Eater he was battling  collapsed under the weight of three separate Stunning Spells. Thicknesse had  fallen to the ground with tiny spikes erupting all over him; he seemed to be  turninginto someformofseaurchin.Fred lookedatPercywithglee.   “You actually are joking,Perce.... I don’t think I’ve heard you joke since  you were—“   The air exploded. They had been grouped together, Harry, Ron, Hermione,  Fred, and Percy, the two Death Eaters at their feet, one Stunned, the other  Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment, when danger seemed temporarily  at bay, the world was rent apart, Harry felt himself flying through the  air,andallhecoulddowasholdas tightlyas possibletothatthinstickofwood  that was his one and only weapon, and shield his head in his arms: He heard  the screams and yells of his companions without a hope of knowing what had  happened to them—   And then the world resolved itself into pain and semidarkness: He was  half buried in the wreckage of a corridor that had been subjected to a terrible  attack. Cold air told him that the side of the castle had been blown away, and  hot stickiness on his cheek told him that he was bleeding copiously. Then he  heard a terrible crythat pulled at his insides, that expressed agony of a kind  neither flame nor curse could cause, and he stood up, swaying, more frightened  than he had been that day, more frightened, perhaps, than he had been in his  life....   And Hermione was struggling to her feet in the wreckage, and three redheaded  men were grouped on the ground where the wall had blasted apart.  Harry grabbed Hermione’s hand as they staggered and stumbled over stone  and wood.   “No—no—no!” someone was shouting. “No! Fred! No!” And Percy was  shaking his brother, and Ronwas kneeling beside them, andFred’s eyes stared  without seeing, the ghost of his last laugh still etched upon his face.   
 Chapter  32    The  Elder  Wand    T T he world had ended, so why had the battle not ceased, the castle  fallen silent in horror, and every combatant laid down their arms?  Harry’s mind was in free fall, spinning out of control, unable to  grasp the impossibility, becauseFredWeasley could not be dead, the evidence  of all his senses must be lying—   And then a body fell past the hole blown into the side of the school and  curses flew in at them from the darkness, hitting the wall behind their heads.   “Get down!” Harry shouted, as more curses flew through the night: He  and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the floor, butPercy lay  across Fred’s body, shielding it from further harm, and when Harry shouted  “Percy, come on, we’ve got to move!” he shook his head.   “Percy!” Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime coating Ron’s face as  he seized his elder brother’s shoulders and pulled, butPercy would not budge.  “Percy, you can’tdo anything for him!We’re going to—”   Hermione screamed, and Harry, turning, did not need to ask why. A monstrous  spider the size of a small car was trying to climb through the huge hole  in the wall. one of Aragog’s descendants had joined the fight.   Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided and the monster was  blown backward, its legs jerking horribly, and vanished into the darkness.   539   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    “It brought friends!” Harry called to the others,glancing over the edge of the  castle through the hole in the wall the curses had blasted. More giant spiders  wereclimbingthesideofthebuilding,liberatedfromtheForbiddenForest,into  which the Death Eaters must have penetrated. Harry fired Stunning Spells  down upon them, knocking the lead monster into its fellows, so that they rolled  backdown the building and out of sight. Then more curses came soaring over  Harry’s head, so close he felt the force of them blow his hair.   “Let’s move, NOW!”   Pushing Hermione ahead of him with Ron, Harry stooped to seize Fred’s  body under the armpit. Percy, realizing what Harry was trying to do, stopped  clinging to the body and helped: together, crouching low to avoid the curses  flyingatthemfromthe grounds,they hauledFredoutoftheway.   “Here,”saidHarry,andtheyplacedhiminanichewhereasuitof armorhad  stood earlier.HecouldnotbeartolookatFredasecondlongerthanhehadto,  andaftermakingsurethatthebodywas well-hidden,hetookoffafterRonand  Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle had vanished but at the end of the corridor, which  was now full of dust and falling masonry, glass long gone from windows, he saw  many people running backward and forward, whether friends or foes he could  not tell. Rounding the corner,Percy let outa bull-like roar: “ROOKWOOD!”  and sprinted off in the direction of a tall man, who was pursuing a couple of  students.   “Harry, in here!” Hermione screamed.   She had pulled Ron behind a tapestry. They seemed to be wrestling together,  and for one mad second Harry thought that they were embracing again;  thenhesawthat Hermionewastryingto restrainRon,tostophim runningafterPercy.    “Listen to me—LISTEN RON !”   “I wanna help—I wanna kill Death Eaters—”   His face was contorted, smeared with dust and smoke, and he was shaking  with rage and grief.   “Ron, we’re the only ones who can endit! Please—Ron—we need the snake,   
 we’ve got to kill the snake!” said Hermione.   But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pursuing another Horcrux could not bring  the satisfaction of revenge; he too wanted to fight, to punish them, the people  whohad killedFred,andhewantedtofindthe otherWeasleys,and aboveall  make sure, make quite sure, that Ginny was not—but he could not permit that  idea to form in his mind—   “We will fight!” Hermione said. “We’ll have to, to reachthe snake! But let’s  not lose sight now of what we’re supposed to be d-doing! We’re the only ones  who can end it!”   She was crying too, and she wiped her face on her torn and singed sleeve as  shespoke,butshetookgreatheaving breathstocalm herselfas,stillkeepinga  tight hold on Ron, she turned to Harry. “You need to find out whereVoldemort  is, because he’ll have the snake with him, won’t he? Do it, Harry—look inside  him!”   Why was it so easy? Because his scar had been burning for hours, yearning  to show himVoldemort’s thoughts? Heclosed his eyes on her command, and  at once, the screams and bangs and all the discordant sounds of the battle  were drowned until they became distant, as though he stood far, far awayfrom  them....   He was standing in the middle of a desolate but strangely familiar room,  with peeling paperonthewallsandallthe windows boardedup exceptfor one.  The sounds of the assault on the castle were muffled and distant. The single  unblocked window revealed distant bursts of light where the castle stood, but  inside the room was dark except for a solitary oil lamp.   He was rolling his wand between his fingers, watching it, his thoughts on  the room in the castle, the secret room only he had ever found, the room, like  the chamber, that you had to be clever and cunning and inquisitive to dis- cover...Hewas confident that the boywould not find the diadem... although  Dumbledore’spuppethadcomemuchfartherthanheeverexpected...toofar....   “My Lord,” said a voice, desperate and cracked. He turned: there was Lucius  Malfoy sitting in the darkest corner, ragged and still bearing the marks   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    of the punishment he had received after the boy’s last escape. One of his eyes  remainedclosedandpuffy.“My Lord...please...my son... ”   “If your son is dead, Lucius, it is not my fault. He did not come and join  me, like the rest of the Slytherins. Perhaps he has decided to befriend Harry  Potter?”   “No—never,” whispered Malfoy.   “You must hope not.”   “Aren’t—aren’t you afraid, my Lord thatPotter might die at another hand  butyours?” askedMalfoy,hisvoiceshaking.“Wouldn’titbe...forgiveme...more  prudent to call off this battle, enter the castle, and seek him y-yourself?”   “DonotpretendLucius.Youwishthebattleto ceasesothatyoucan discover  what has happened to your son. Andido not need to seekPotter. Before the  nightisout,Potterwillhave cometofindme.”   Voldemort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in his fingers. It troubled  him...and those things that troubled LordVoldemort neededtobe rearranged....    “Go and fetchSnape.”   “Snape, m-my Lord?”   “Snape. Now.Ineed him. Thereis a—service—I require from him.Go.”   Frightened, stumbling a little through the gloom, Lucius left the room.  Voldemort continued to stand there, twirling the wand between his fingers,  staring at it.   “It is the only way, Nagini,” he whispered, and he looked around, and there  was the great thicksnake, now suspended in midair, twisting gracefully within  the enchanted, protected space he had made for her, a starry, transparent  sphere somewhere between a glittering cage and a tank.   With a gasp, Harry pulled back and opened his eyes at the same moment  his ears were assaulted with the screeches and cries, the smashes and bangs of  battle.   “He’s in the Shrieking Shack. The snake’s with him, it’s got some sort of  magical protection around it. He’s just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape.”   
 “Voldemort’s sitting in the shrieking Shack?” said Hermione, outraged. “He’s  not—he’s not even fighting??”   “He doesn’t think he needs to fight,” said Harry. “He thinks I’m going to go  to him.”   “But why?”   “He knows I’m after Horcruxes—he’s keeping Nagini close beside him—  obviously I’m going to have to go to him to get near the thing—   ” “Right,” said Ron, squaring his shoulders. “So you can’t go, that’s what he  wants, what he’s expecting. You stayhere and look after Hermione, and I’ll go  and get it—”   Harry cut across Ron.   “You two stayhere, I’ll go under the Cloak and I’ll be back as soon as I—”   “No,” said Hermione,, “it makes much more senseifItake the Cloak and—”   “Don’t even think about it,” Ron snarled at her.   Before Hermione could get farther than “Ron, I’m just as capable—” the  tapestry at the top of the staircase on whichthey stood was ripped open.   “POTTER!”   Two masked Death Eaters stood there, but even before their wands were  fully raised, Hermione shouted “Glisseo!”   The stairs beneath their feet flattened intoachute and she, Harry, and Ron  hurtled down it, unable to control their speed but so fastthat the Death Eaters’  Stunning Spells flew far over their heads. They shot through the concealing  tapestry at the bottom and spun onto the floor, hitting the opposite wall.   “Duro!” cried Hermione, pointing her wand at the tapestry, and there were  two loud, sickening crunches as the tapestry turned to stone and the Death  Eaters pursuing them crumpled against it.   “Get back!” shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and Hermione hurled themselves  against a door as a herd of galloping desks thundered past, shepherded by a  sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared not to notice them. Her hair  had come down and there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the corner,  they heard her scream, “CHARGE!”   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    “Harry, you get the Cloak on,” said Hermione. “Never mind us—   ” But he threw it over all three of them; large though they were he doubted  anyone would see their disembodied feet through the dust that clogged the air,  the falling stone, the shimmer of spells.   They ran down the next staircase and found themselves in a corridor full of  duelers. The portraits on either side of the fighters were crammed with figures  screaming advice and encouragement, while Death Eaters, both masked and  unmasked, dueled studentsand teachers. Deanhad won himselfawand,forhe  was face-to-face with Dolohov,Parvati with Travers. Harry, Ron and Hermione  raised their wands at once, ready to strike, but the duelers were weaving and  dartingso muchthat therewasa stronglikelihoodof hurtingonof their own  side if they cast curses. Even as they stood braced, looking for the opportunity  to act, there came a great “Wheeeeeeeeeeee!” and lookingup, Harry sawPeeves  zooming over them, dropping Snargaluff pods down onto the Death Eaters,  whose heads were suddenly engulfed in wriggling green tubers like fat worms.   “Argh!”   Afistful of tubers had hit the Cloak over Ron’s head; the damp green roots  were suspended improbably in midair as Ron tried to shake them loose.   “Someone’s invisible there!” shouted a masked Death Eater, pointing.   Dean made the most of the Death Eater’s momentary distraction, knocking  him out with a stunning Spell; Dolohov attempted to retaliate, and Parvati  shot a Body Bind Curse at him.   “LET’S GO!” Harry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione gathered the Cloak  tightly around themselves and pelted, heads down, through the midst of the  fighters,slippingalittleinpoolsof Snargaluffjuice,towardthetopofthemarble  staircase into the entrance hall.   “I’m Draco Malfoy, I’m Draco, I’m on your side!”   Dracowas on the upper landing,pleading with another masked Death Eater.  Harry Stunned the Death Eater as they passed. Malfoy looked around, beaming,  for his savior, and Ron punched him from under the Cloak. Malfoy fell  backward on top of the Death Eater, his mouth bleeding, utterly bemused.   
 “And that’s the second time we’ve saved your life tonight, you two—faced  bastard!” Ron yelled.   There were more duelers all over the stairs and in the hall. Death Eaters  everywhere Harry looked: Yaxley, close to the front doors, in combat with  Flitwick, a masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley right beside them. Students  ran in every direction; some carrying or dragging injured friends. Harry directed  a Stunning Spell toward the masked Death Eater; it missed but nearly  hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere brandishing armfulsofVenomous  Tentacula, which looped itself happily around the nearest Death Eater and  began reeling him in.   Harry, Ron, and Hermione sped won the marble staircase: glass shattered  on the left, and the Slytherin hourglass that had recorded House points spilled  its emeralds everywhere,so that people slipped and staggered as they ran. Two  bodies fell from the balcony overhead as they reached the ground a grayblur  that Harry took for an animal sped four-legged across the hall to sink its teeth  into one of the fallen.   “NO!” shrieked Hermione,and withadeafening blast from herwand,Fenrir  Greyback was thrown backward from the feebly struggling body of Lavender  Brown. He hit the marble banisters and struggled to return to his feet. Then,  with a bright white flash and a crack, a crystal ball fell on top of his head, and  he crumpled to the ground and did not move.   “I have more!” shrieked Professor Trelawney from over the banisters. “More  for any who want them! Here—”   And with a move like a tennis serve, she heaved another enormous crystal  sphere from her bag, waved her wand through the air, and caused the ball to  speed across the hall and smash through a window. At the same moment, the  heavy wooden front doors burst open, and more of the gigantic spiders forced  their wayinto the front hall.   Screams of terror rent the air: the fighters scattered, Death Eaters and  Hogwartians alike, and red and green jets of light flew into the midst of the  oncoming monsters, whichshuddered and reared, more terrifying than ever.   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    “How do we get out?” yelled Ron over all the screaming, but before either  Harry or Hermione could answer they were bowled aside; Hagrid had come  thundering down the stairs, brandishing his flowery pink umbrella.   “Don’t hurt ’em, don’t hurt ’em!” he yelled.   “HAGRID, NO!”   Harry forgot everything else: he sprinted out from under thecloak, running  bent double to avoid the curses illuminating the whole hall.   “HAGRID, COME BACK!” But he was not even halfway to Hagrid when  he saw it happen: Hagrid vanished amongst the spiders, and with a great  scurrying, a foul swarming movement, they retreated under the onslaught of  spells, Hagrid buried in their midst.   “HAGRID!”   Harry heard someone calling his own name, whether friend or foe he did  not care: He was sprinting down the front steps into the dark grounds, and  the spiders were swarming awaywith their prey, and he could see nothing of  Hagrid at all.   “HAGRID!”   He thought he could make out an enormous arm waving from the midst of  the spider swarm, but as he made to chase after them, his way was impeded  by a monumental foot, which swung down out of the darkness and made the  ground on which he stood shudder. He looked up: A giant stood before him,  twenty feet high, its head hidden in shadow, nothing but its treelike, hairy  shins illuminated by light from the castle doors. With one brutal, fluid movement,  it smashed a massive fist through an upper window, and glass rained  down upon Harry, forcing him backunder the shelter of the doorway.   “Oh my—!” shrieked Hermione, as she and Ron caught up with Harry  and gazed upward at the giant now trying to seize people through the window  above.   “DON’T!” Ron yelled, grabbing Hermione’s hand as she raised her wand.  “Stun him and he’ll crush half the castle—”   “HAGGER?”   
 547   Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle; only now did Harry  realize that Grawpwas, indeed, an undersized giant. The gargantuan monster  trying to crush people on the upper floors turned around and let out a roar.  The stone steps trembled as he stomped toward his smaller kin, and Grawp’s  lopsided mouth fell open, showing yellow,half brick—sized teeth; and then they  launched themselves at eachother with the savagery of lions.   “RUN!” Harry roared; the night was full of hideous yells and blows as the  giants wrestled, and he seized Hermione’s hand and tore down the steps into  the grounds, Ron bringing up the rear. Harry hadnot lost hope of finding and  saving Hagrid; he ran so fast that they were halfwaytoward the forest before  they were brought up short again.   The air around them had frozen: Harry’s breath caught and solidified in  his chest. Shapes moved out in the darkness, swirling figures of concentrated  blackness, moving in a great wave towards the castles, their faces hooded and  their breath rattling...   Ron and Hermione closed in beside him as the sounds of fighting behind  them grew suddenly muted, deadened, because a silence only dementors could  bring was falling thickly through the night, and Fred was gone, and Hagrid  was surely dying or already dead...   “come on, Harry!” said Hermione’s voice from a very long way away. “Patronuses,  Harry, come on!” he raised his wand, but a dull hopelessness was  spreading throughout him: How many more laydead that he did not yet know  about? He felt as though his soul had already half left his body....   “HARRY, COME ON!” screamed Hermione.   Ahundred dementors were advancing, gliding toward them, sucking their  way closerto Harry’s despair, which was likea promiseofa feast....   He saw Ron’s silver terrier burst into the air, flicker feebly, and expire; he  saw Hermione’s otter twist in midair and fade, and his own wand trembled  in his hand, and he almost welcomed the oncoming oblivion, the promise of  nothing,of no feeling....   And thenasilver hare,aboar,and fox soared past Harry,Ron, and Hermione’s   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    heads: the dementors fell back before the creatures’ approach. Three more  people had arrived out of the darkness to stand beside them, their wands outstretched,  continuing to castPatronuses: Luna, Ernie, and Seamus.   “That’s right,” said Luna encouragingly, as if they were back in the Room  of Requirement and thiswas simply spell practice for theD.A., “That’s right,  Harry... come on think of something happy....”   “Something happy.‘ he said, his voice cracked.   “We’re all still here,” she whispered, “we;re still fighting. Come on, now....”   Therewasa silver spark, thenawavering light, and then, with the greatest  effort it had ever cost him the stag burst from the end of Harry’s wand. It cantered  forward, and now the dementors scattered in earnest, and immediately  the night was mild again, but the sounds of the surrounding battle were loud  in his ears.   “Can’t thank you enough,” said Ron shakily, turning to Luna, Ernie, and  Seamus “you just saved—”   With a roar and an earth-quaking tremor, another giant came lurching out  of the darkness from the direction of the forest, brandishing a club taller than  any of them.   “RUN!” Harry shouted again, but the others needed no telling; They all  scattered, and not a second too soon, for the next moment the creature’s vast  foot had fallen exactly where they had been standing. Harry looked round: Ron  and Hermione were following him, but the other three had vanished backinto  the battle.   “Let’sgetoutof range!” yelledRonasthegiant swungitsclubagainandits  bellows echoed through the night, across the grounds where bursts of red and  green light continued to illuminate the darkness.   “The Whomping willow,” said Harry, “go!”   Somehow he walled it all up in his mind, crammed it into a small space  into whichhe could not look now: thoughts ofFred and Hagrid, and his terror  for all the people he loved, scattered in and outside the castle, must all wait,  because they had to run, had to reachthe snake andVoldemort, because that   
 was, as Hermione said, the only wayto end it—   He sprinted, half—believing he could outdistance death itself, ignoring the  jets of light flying in the darkness all around him, and the sound of the lake  crashing like the sea, and the creaking of the Forbidden Forest though the  night was windless; through grounds that seemed themselves to have risen in  rebellion, he ran faster than he had ever moved in his life, and it was he who  saw the great tree first, theWillow that protected the secret at its roots with  whiplike, slashing branches.   Panting and gasping, Harry slowed down, skirting the willow’s swiping  branches, peering through the darkness toward its tick trunk, trying to see  the single knot in the bark of the old tree that would paralyze it. Ron and  Hermione caught up, Hermione so out of breath that she could not speak.   “How—how’re we going to get in?” panted Ron. “I can—see the place—if we  just had—Crookshanks again—”   “Crookshanks?” wheezed Hermione, bent double, clutching her chest. “Are  you a wizard, or what?”   “Oh—right—yeah—”   Ron looked around,then directedhiswandatatwigonthegroundandsaid  “Wingardium Leviosa!” The twig flew up from the ground, spun through the  air as if caught by a gust of wind, then zoomed directly at the trunk through  theWillow’s ominously swaying branches. It jabbed ata place near the roots,  and at once, the writhing tree became still.   “Perfect!” panted Hermione.   “Wait.”   For one teetering second, while the crashesand booms of the battle filled the  air,Harry hesitated.Voldemortwantedhimtodothis, wantedhimto come....  Was he leading Ron and Hermione into a trap?   But the reality seemed to close upon him, cruel and plain: the only way  forwardwas to kill the snake, and the snakewas whereVoldemort was, and  Voldemortwasattheendofthis tunnel....   “Harry, we’re coming, just get in there!” said Ron, pushing him forward.   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    Harry wriggled into the earthy passage hidden in the tree’s roots. It was  a much tighter squeeze than it had been the last time they had entered it.  The tunnel was low—ceilinged: they had had to double up to move through it  nearly four years previously; now there was nothing for it but to crawl. Harry  went first, his wand illuminated, expecting at any moment to meet barriers,  but none came. They moved in silence, Harry’s gaze fixed upon the swinging  beam of the wand held in his fist.   At last, the tunnel began to slope upward and Harry saw a sliver of light  ahead. Hermione tugged at his ankle.   “The Cloak!” she whispered. “Put the Cloak on!”   He groped behind him and she forced the bundle of slippery cloth into his  free hand. With difficulty he dragged it over himself, murmured, “Nox,” extinguishing  his wandlight, and continued on his hands and knees, as silently as  possible, all his senses straining, expecting every second to be discovered, to  hear a cold clear voice, see a flash of green light.   And then he heard voices coming from the room directly ahead of them, only  slightly muffled by the fact that the opening at the end of the tunnel had been  blocked up by what looked like an old crate. Hardly daring to breathe, Harry  edged right up tot he opening and peered through a tiny gap left between crate  and wall.   Theroombeyondwasdimlylit,buthecouldseeNagini, swirlingandcoiling  like a serpent underwater, safe in her enchanted, starry sphere, whichfloated  unsupported in midair. He could see the edge of a table, and a long-fingered  white hand toying with a wand. Then Snape spoke, and Harry’s heart lurched:  Snape was inches awayfrom where he crouched, hidden.   “...my Lord, their resistanceis crumbling—”   “—anditis doing so without your help,” saidVoldemortin his high,clear  voice. “Skilled wizard though you are, Severus,I do not think you will make  muchdifference now.We are almost there... almost.”   “Letmefindtheboy. LetmebringyouPotter. IknowIcanfindhim,my  Lord. Please.”   
 Snape strode past the gap, and Harry drew back a little, keeping his eyes  fixed upon Nagini, wondering whether there was any spell that might penetrate  the protection surrounding her, but he could not think of anything. One  failed attempt, andhe would giveawayhis position....   Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now, see the red eyes, the flattened,  serpentine face, the pallor of him gleaming slightly in the semidarkness.   “Ihavea problem, Severus,” saidVoldemort softly.   “My Lord?” said Snape.   Voldemort raised the ElderWand, holding it as delicately and precisely as  a conductor’s baton.   “Why doesn’t it work for me, Severus?”   In the silence Harry imagined he could hear the snake hissing slightly as it  coiled and uncoiled—orwasitVoldemort’s sibilant sigh lingering on the air?   “My—my lord?” said Snape blankly. “I do not understand. You—you have  performed extraordinary magic with that wand.”   “No,” saidVoldemort. “Ihave performedmy usual magic. Iam extraordinary,  but thiswand...no. It has not revealed the wondersit has promised. I  feel no difference between thiswand and the oneI procured from Ollivander  all those years ago.”   Voldemort’s tone was musing, calm, but Harry’s scar had begun to throb  and pulse:Painwas buildinginhis forehead,andhe could feel that controlled  senseof fury building insideVoldemort.   “No difference,” saidVoldemort again.   Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face. He wondered whether  Snape sensed danger,was trying to find the right words to reassure his master.   Voldemort started to move around the room: Harry lost sight of him for  seconds as he prowled, speaking in that same measured voice, while the pain  and fury mounted in Harry.   “I have thought long and hard, Severus...do you know why I have called  you backfrom battle?”   And for a moment Harry saw Snape’s profile. His eyes were fixed upon the   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    coiling snake in its enchanted cage.   “No,myLord,butIbegyouwillletme return.LetmefindPotter.”   “You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understandsPotter asIdo. He does  not need finding.Potter will come to me.Iknew his weakness you see, his one  great flaw. He will hatewatching the others struckdown around him, knowing  that it is for him that it happens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will  come.”   “Butmy Lord,he mightbe killed accidentallybysomeone other than yourself—  ”  “My instructions to the Death Eaters have been perfectly clear. Capture  Potter. Kill his friends—the more, the better—but do not kill him.  “ButitisofyouthatIwishedtospeak, Severus,notHarryPotter.Youhave  been very valuable to me.Very valuable.”  “My Lord knowsIseekonlyto serve him. But—letmegoand findtheboy,  my Lord. Let me bring him to you.IknowIcan—”   “I have told you, no!” saidVoldemort, and Harry caught the glint of red in  his eyes as he turned again, and the swishing of his cloak was like the slitheringofa  snake, andhe feltVoldemort’s impatiencein his burning scar. “My  concern at the moment, Severus, is what will happen whenIfinally meet the  boy!”   “My Lord, there can be no question, surely—?”   “—but there is a question, Severus. There is.”   Voldemort halted, and Harry could see him plainly again as he slid the  ElderWand through his white fingers, staring at Snape.   “WhydidboththewandsIhaveusedfailwhen directedatHarryPotter?”   “I—I cannot answer that, my Lord.”   “Can’t you?”   The stab of rage felt like a spike driven through Harry’s head: he forced his  own fist into his mouth to stop himself from crying out in pain. He closed his  eyes, and suddenlyhewasVoldemort, looking into Snape’s pale face.   “Mywandofyewdid everythingof whichIaskedit, Severus, exceptto kill   
 Harry Potter. Twice it failed. Ollivander told me under torture of the twin  cores, told me to take another’s wand. I did so, but Lucius’s wand shattered  upon meetingPotter’s.”   “I—I have no explanation, my Lord.”   Snapewas not lookingatVoldemort now. His dark eyes were still fixed upon  the coiling serpent in its protective sphere.   “I soughta thirdwand, Severus. the ElderWand,theWandof Destiny,the  Deathstick.Itookit from its previous master.Itookit from the graveof Albus  Dumbledore.”   And now Snape looked at Voldemort, and Snape’s face was like a death  mask. it was marble white and so still that when he spoke, it was a shock to  see that anyone lived behind the blank eyes.   “My Lord—let me go to the boy—”   “AllthislongnightwhenI amonthebrinkof victory,Ihavesathere,”said  Voldemort, his voice barely louder thana whisper,“wondering,wondering,why  the ElderWand refuses to be what it ought to be, refuses to perform as legend  saysit must perform for its rightful owner...andIthinkIhave the answer.”   Snape did not speak.   “Perhaps you already know it?You areaclever man, after all, Severus.You  have beena good and faithful servant, andIregret what must happen.”   “My Lord—”   “The ElderWand cannot serve me properly, Severus, becauseI am not its  true master. The ElderWand belongs to the wizard who killed its last owner.  You killed Albus Dumbledore. While you live, Severus, the ElderWand cannot  truly be mine.”   “My Lord!” Snape protested, raising his wand.   “It cannot be any other way,” said Voldemort. “I must master the wand,  Severus. Masterthewand,andImasterPotterat last.”   AndVoldemortswipedtheairwiththeElderWand.Itdid nothingtoSnape,  whoforasplit second seemedtothinkhehadbeen reprieved:butthenVoldemort’s  intention became clear. The snake’s cage was rolling through the air,   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    and before Snape could do anything more than yell, it had encased him, head   and shoulders, andVoldemort spokeinParseltongue.   “Kill.”   There was a terrible scream. Harry saw Snape’s face losing the little color  it had left; it whitened as his blackeyes widened, as the snake’s fangs pierced  his neck, as he failed to push the enchanted cage off himself, as his knees gave  wayand he fell to the floor.   “I regret it,” saidVoldemort coldly.   He turned away; there was no sadness in him, no remorse. It was time to  leave this shackand take charge, with a wand that would now do his full bidding.  He pointed it at the starry cage holding the snake, whichdrifted upward,  off Snape, who fell sideways onto the floor, blood gushing from the wounds in  his neck. Voldemort swept from the room without a backward glance, and the  great serpent floated after him in its huge protective sphere.   Backin the tunnel and his own mind, Harry opened his eyes; He had drawn  blood biting down on his knuckles in an effort not to shout out. Now he was  looking through the tiny crack between crate and wall, watching a foot in a  blackboot trembling on the floor.   “Harry!” breathed Hermione behind him, but he had already pointed his  wand at the crate blocking his view. It lifted an inch into the air and drifted  sideways silently. As quietly as he could, he pulled himself up into the room.   He did not know why he was doing it, why he was approaching the dying  man: he did not know what he felt as he sawSnape’swhite face,and the fingers  trying to staunchthe bloody wound at his neck. Harry took off the invisibility  cloak and looked down upon the man he hated, whose widening black eyes  found Harry as he cried to speak. Harry bent over him, and Snape seized the  front of his robes and pulled him close.   Aterrible rasping, gurgling noise issued from Snape’s throat.   “Take...it....Take...it.... ”   Something more than blood was leaking from Snape. Silvery blue, neither  gas nor liquid, it gushed form his mouth and his ears and his eyes, and Harry   
 555   knew what it was, but did not know what to do—   Aflask, conjured from thin air,was thrust into his shaking handbyHermione.  Harry lifted the silvery substance into it with his wand. When the flask was  fulltothebrim,andSnape lookedasthoughtherewasnobloodleftinhim,his  grip on Harry’s robes slackened.   “Look... at... me.... ” he whispered.   The green eyes found the black, but after a second, something in the depths  of the dark pair seemed to vanish, leaving them fixed, blank, and empty. The  hand holding Harry thudded to the floor, and Snape moved no more.   
 CHAPTER  32.  THE  ELDER  WAND    
 Chapter  33    The  Prince’s  Tale    H H arry remained kneeling at Snape’s side, simply staring down at  him, until quite suddenly a high, cold voice spoke so close to  them that Harry jumped on his feet, the flask gripped tightly in   his hands, thinking thatVoldemort had reentered the room.  Voldemort’s voice reverberated from the walls and floor, and Harry realized   that he was talking to Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area, that the  residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in the castle would hear  him as clearly as if he stood beside them, his breath on the backof their necks,   a deathblow away.  “You have fought,” said the high, cold voice, “valiantly. Lord Voldemort  knows how to value bravery.  “Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue to resist me, you will  all die, one by one. Ido not wish this to happen. Every drop of magical blood   spilled is a loss and a waste.  “LordVoldemortis merciful.Icommandmy forcesto retreat immediately.  “You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with dignity. Treat your injured.  “Ispeaknow,HarryPotter, directlytoyou.Youhave permittedyour friends   to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the  ForbiddenForest.If,attheendofthathour,youhavenot cometome,havenot   557   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    given yourself up, then battle recommences. This time,I shall enter the fray  myself, HarryPotter, andIshall find you, andIshall punish every last man,  woman, and child who has tried to conceal you from me. One hour.”   Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically, looking at Harry.   “Don’t listen to him,” said Ron.   “It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wildly. “Let’s—let’s get backto the castle,  if he’s gone to the forest we’ll need to think of a new plan—”   She glanced at Snape’s body, then hurried backto the tunnel entrance. Ron  followed her. Harry gathered up the Invisibility Cloak, then looked down at  Snape. He did not know what to feel, except shockat the waySnape had been  killed, and the reason for whichit had been done...   They crawled back through the tunnel, none of them talking, and Harry  wondered whether Ron and Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in  their heads as he could.   You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself.  Ishallwait for one hourin theForbiddenForest...One hour...   Small bundles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of the castle (?). It  could only be an hour or so from dawn, yet it was pitch-black. The three of  them hurried toward the stone steps. A lone dog, the size of a small boat,  lay abandoned in front of them. There was no other sign of Grawp or of his  attacker.   The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no flashes of light now, no  bangs or screams or shouts. The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall were  stained with blood. Emeralds were still scattered all over the floor, along with  pieces of marble and splintered wood. Part of the banisters had been blown  away.   “Where is everyone?” whispered Hermione.   Ron led the wayto the Great Hall. Harry stopped in the doorway.   The House tables were gone and the room was crowded. The survivors  stood in groups, their arms around eachother’s necks. The injured were being  treated upon the raised platformby MadamPomfrey anda groupof helpers.   
 Firenze was amongst the injured; his flank poured blood and he shook where  he lay, unable to stand.   Thedeadlayinarowinthe middleoftheHall.HarrycouldnotseeFred’s  body, because his family surrounded him. George was kneeling at his head;  Mrs. Weasleywas lying across Fred’schest, her body shaking. Mr. Weasley  stroking her hair while tears cascaded down his cheeks.   Without a word to Harry, Ron and Hermione walked away. Harry saw  Hermione approach Ginny, whose face was swollen and blotchy, and hug her.  Ron joined Bill, Fleur, andPercy, who flung an arm around Ron’s shoulders. As  Ginny and Hermione moved closer to the rest of the family, Harry had a clear  view of the bodies lying next to Fred. Remus and Tonks, pale and still and  peaceful-looking, apparently asleep beneath the dark, enchanted ceiling.   The Great Hall seemed to flyaway, become smaller, shrink, as Harry reeled  backward from the doorway. He could not draw breath. He could not bear to  look at any of the other bodies, to see who else had died for him. He could not  bear to join theWeasleys, could not look into their eyes, when if he had given  himselfupinthe firstplace,Fredmight neverhave died...   Heturnedawayandranupthemarble staircase.Lupin,Tonks...Heyearned  nottofeel...He wishedhecouldripouthisheart,his innards, everythingthat  was screaming inside him...   The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts seemed to have joined  the mass mourning in the Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching  the crystal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not slow down until he  reached the stone gargoyle guarding the headmaster’s office.   “Password?”   “Dumbledore!” said Harry without thinking, because it was he whom he  yearned to see, and to his surprise the gargoyle slid aside revealing the spiral  staircase behind.   But when Harry burst into the circular office he found a change. The portraits  that hung all around the walls were empty. Not a single headmaster or  headmistress remained to see him; all, it seemed, had flitted away, charging   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    throughthe paintingsthatlinedthe castlesothattheycouldhaveaclearview  of what was going on.   Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumbledore’s deserted frame, whichhung directly  behind the headmaster’s chair, then turned his back on it. The stone  Pensievelayin the cabinet whereit had always been. Harry heavedit onto the  desk and poured Snape’s memories into the wide basin with its runic markings  around the edge. To escape into someoneelse’s head would be a blessed  relief... Nothing that even Snape had left him could be worse than his own  thoughts. The memories swirled, silver white and strange, and without hesitating,  with a feeling of reckless abandonment, as though this would assuage  his torturing grief, Harry dived.   He fell headlong into sunlight, and his feet found warm ground. When he  straightenedup,hesawthathewasinanearly desertedplayground.Asingle  huge chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls were swinging backward  and forward, and a skinny boy was watching them from behind a clump  of bushes. His black hair was overlong and his clothes were so mismatched  that it looked deliberate: too short jeans, a shabby, overlarge coat that might  have belonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt.   Harrymovedclosertotheboy.Snape lookedno morethannineortenyears  old, sallow, small, stringy. There was undisguised greed in his thin face as  he watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher and higher than her  sister.   “Lily, don’t do it!” shrieked the elder of the two.   But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown  into the air, quite literally flown, launched herself skyward with a great shout  of laughter, and instead of crumpling on the playground asphalt, she soared  like a trapeze artist through the air, staying up far too long, landing far too  lightly.   “Mummy told you not to!”   Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of her sandals on the  ground, making a crunching, grinding sound, then leapt up, hands on hips.   
 “Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!”   “But I’m fine,” said Lily, still giggling. “Tuney, look at this. Watch whatI  can do.”   Petunia glanced around. The playground was deserted apart from themselves  and, though the girls did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up a fallen  flower from the bush behind whichSnape lurked.Petunia advanced, evidently  torn between curiosity and disapproval. Lily waited until Petunia was near  enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm. The flower sat there,  opening and closing its petals, like some bizarre, many-lipped oyster.   “Stop it!” shriekedPetunia.   “It’s not hurting you,” said Lily, but she closed her hand on the blossom and  threw it backto the ground.   “It’s not right,” saidPetunia, but her eyes had followed the flower’s flight to  the ground and lingered upon it. “How do you do it?” she added, and there was  definite longing in her voice.   “It’s obvious, isn’t it?” Snape could no longer contain himself, but had  jumped out from behind the bushes. Petunia shrieked and ran backward toward  the swings, but Lily, though clearly startled, remained where she was.  Snape seemed to regret his appearance. Adull flush of color mounted the sallow  cheeks as he looked at Lily.   “What’s obvious?” asked Lily.   Snapehadanairof nervous excitement.Witha glanceatthe distantPetunia,  now hovering beside the swings, he lowered his voice and said, “I know  what you are.”   “What do you mean?”   “You’re...you’rea witch,” whispered Snape.   She looked affronted.   “That’s not a very nice thing to sayto somebody!”   She turned, nose in the air, and marched off toward her sister.   “No!” said Snape. He was highly colored now, and Harry wondered why  he did not take off the ridiculously large coat, unless it was because he did   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    not want to reveal the smock beneath it. He flapped after the girls, looking  ludicrously batlike, like his older self.   The sisters considered him, united in disapproval, both holding on to one of  the swing poles, as though it was the safe place in tag.   “You are,” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve been watching you for a  while. But there’s nothing wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wizard.”   Petunia’s laugh was like cold water.   “Wizard!” she shrieked, her courage returned now that she had recovered  fromtheshockofhis unexpected appearance.“Iknowwhoyouare.You’rethat  Snapeboy!Theylivedown Spinner’sEndbytheriver,”shetoldLily,anditwas  evident from her tone that she considered the addressa poor recommendation.  “Why have you been spying on us?”   “Haven’t been spying,” said Snape, hot and uncomfortable and dirty-haired  in the bright sunlight. “Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway,” he added spitefully,  “you’re a Muggle.”   ThoughPetunia evidently did not understand the word, she could hardly  mistake the tone.   “Lily,come on, we’re leaving!” she said shrilly. Lily obeyed her sister at once,  glaring at Snape as she left. He stoodwatching them as they marched through  the playground gate, and Harry, the only one left to observe him, recognized  Snape’s bitter disappointment, and understood that Snape had been planning  this moment fora while, and thatit had all gone wrong...   The scene dissolved, and before Harry knew it, re-formed around him. He  was now in a small thicket of trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering  through their trunks. The shadows castby the trees madea basinof cool green  shade. Two children sat facing eachother, cross-legged on the ground. Snape  had removed his coat now; his odd smocklooked less peculiar in the half light.   “...andthe Ministrycanpunishyouifyoudomagic outsideschool,youget  letters.”   “ButIhave done magic outside school!”   “We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let you off when you’re a   
 kid and you can’t help it. But once you’re eleven,” he nodded importantly, “and  they start training you, then you’ve got to go careful.”   There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen twig and twirled it in  the air, and Harry knew that she was imagining sparks trailing from it. Then  she dropped the twig, leaned in toward the boy, and said, “It is real, isn’t it?  It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re lying to me. Petunia says there isn’t a  Hogwarts. It is real, isn’t it?”   “It’s real for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get the letter, you and  me.”   “Really?” whispered Lily.   “Definitely,” said Snape, and even with his poorly cut hair and his odd  clothes, he struck an oddly impressive figure sprawled in front of her, brimful  of confidence in his destiny.   “And will it really come by owl?” Lily whispered.   “Normally,” said Snape. “But you’re Muggle-born, so someone from the  school will have to come and explain to your parents.”   “Does it make a difference, being Muggle-born?”   Snape hesitated. His blackeyes, eager in the greenish gloom, moved over  the pale face, the dark red hair.   “No,” he said. “It doesn’t make any difference.”   “Good,” said Lily, relaxing. It was clear that she had been worrying.   “You’ve got loads of magic,” said Snape. “I saw that. All the time I was  watching you...”   His voice trailed away; she was not listening, but had stretched out on the  leafy ground and was looking up at the canopy of leaves overhead. He watched  her as greedily as he had watched her in the playground.   “How are things at your house?” Lily asked.   Alittle crease appeared between his eyes.   “Fine,” he said.   “They’re not arguing anymore?”   “Oh yes, they’re arguing,” said Snape. He picked up a fistful of leaves and   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    began tearing them apart, apparently unaware of what he was doing. “But it   won’t be that long and I’ll be gone.”   “Doesn’t your dad like magic?”   “He doesn’t like anything, much,” said Snape.   “Severus?”   Alittle smile twisted Snape’s mouth when she said his name.   “Yeah?”   “Tell me about the dementors again.”   “What d’you want to know about them for?”   “IfI use magic outside school—”   “They wouldn’t give you to the dementors for that! Dementors are for people  who do really bad stuff. They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban. You’re not  going to end up in Azkaban, you’re too—”   He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Thena small rustling noise  behind Harry made him turn:Petunia, hiding behinda tree, had lost her footing.    “Tuney!” said Lily,surprise and welcome in her voice,but Snape had jumped  to his feet.   “Who’s spying now?” he shouted. “What d’you want?”   Petunia was breathless, alarmed at being caught. Harry could see her  struggling for something hurtful to say.   “What is that you’re wearing, anyway?” she said, pointing at Snape’s chest.  “Your mum’s blouse?”   Therewasa crack.Abranch overPetunia’s head had fallen. Lily screamed.  The branchcaughtPetunia on the shoulder, and she staggered backward and  burst into tears.   “Tuney!”   ButPetuniawas runningaway. Lily rounded on Snape.   “Did you make that happen?”   “No.” He looked both defiant and scared.   “You did!”Shewasbackingawayfromhim.“Youdid!Youhurt her!”   
 “No—no,Ididn’t!”   But the lie did not convince Lily. After one last burning look, she ran from  the little thicket, off after her sister, and Snape looked miserable and confused...    And the scene re-formed. Harry looked around. He was on platform nine  and three quarters, and Snape stood beside him, slightly hunched, next to a  thin, sallow-faced, sour-looking woman who greatly resembled him. Snapewas  staring at a family of four a short distance away. The two girls stood a little  apart from their parents. Lily seemed to be pleading with her sister. Harry  moved closer to listen.   “...I’msorry, Tuney, I’m sorry! Listen—” She caught her sister’s hand and  held tight to it, even though Petunia tried to pull it away. “Maybe once I’m  there—no, listen, Tuney! Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to go to Professor  Dumbledore and persuade him to change his mind!”   “I don’t—want—to—go!” saidPetunia, and she dragged her hand backout  ofher sister’s grasp.“You thinkI wanttogoto some stupid castleand learnto  be a—a...”   Her pale eyes roved over the platform, over the cats mewling in their owners’  arms, over the owls, fluttering and hooting at eachother in cages, over the  students, some already intheir long blackrobes, loading trunks onto the scarlet  steam engine or else greeting one another with glad cries after a summer  apart.   “—you thinkI wanttobe a—a freak?”   Lily’s eyes filledwith tears asPetunia succeededin tugging her handaway.   “I’m not a freak,” said Lily. “That’s a horrible thing to say.”   “That’s where you’re going,” saidPetunia with relish. “Aspecial school for  freaks.You and that Snape boy... weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s good  you’re being separated from normal people. It’s for our safety.”   Lily glanced toward her parents, who were looking around the platform  with an air of wholehearted enjoyment, drinking in the scene. Then she looked  backat her sister, and her voice was low and fierce.   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    “You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when you wrote to the headmaster  and begged him to take you.”   Petunia turned scarlet.   “Beg?Ididn’t beg!”   “I saw his reply. It was very kind.”   “You shouldn’thave read—” whisperedPetunia, “thatwasmy private—how  could you—?”   Lily gave herself awayby half-glancing toward where Snape stood nearby.  Petunia gasped.   “Thatboy foundit!Youandthatboyhavebeen sneakinginmy room!”   “No—not sneaking—” Now Lily was on the defensive. “Severus saw the  envelope, and he couldn’t believe a Muggle could have contacted Hogwarts,  that’s all! He says there must be wizards working undercover in the postal  service who take care of—”   “Apparently wizards poke their nosesin everywhere!” saidPetunia, now as  pale as she had been flushed. “Freak!” she spat at her sister, and she flounced  off to where her parents stood...   The scene dissolved again. Snape was hurrying along the corridor of the  Hogwarts Express as it clattered through the countryside. He had already  changed into his school robes, had perhaps taken the first opportunity to take  off his dreadful Muggle clothes. At last he stopped, outside a compartment in  which a groupof rowdy boys were talking. Hunchedina corner seat beside the  window was Lily, her face pressed against the windowpane.   Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down opposite Lily. She  glanced at him and then looked backout of the window. She had been crying.   “I don’t want to talk to you,” she said in a constricted voice.   “Why not?”   “Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from Dumbledore.”   “So what?”   She threw him a look of deep dislike.   “So she’s my sister!”   
 “She’s only a—” He caught himself quickly; Lily, too busy trying to wipe her  eyes without being noticed, did not hear him.   “But we’re going!” he said, unable to suppress the exhilaration in his voice.  “Thisis it!We’re offto Hogwarts!”   She nodded, mopping her eyes, but in spite of herself, she half smiled.   “You’dbetter be in Slytherin,” said Snape, encouraged that she had brightened  a little.   “Slytherin?”   One of the boys sharing the compartment, who had shown no interest at all  in Lily or Snape until that point, looked around at the word, and Harry, whose  attention had been focused entirely on the two beside the window, saw his  father: slight, black-haired like Snape, but with that indefinable air of having  been well-cared-for, even adored, that Snape so conspicuously lacked.   “Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” James  asked the boy lounging on the seats opposite him, and with a jolt, Harry realized  that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile.   “My whole family have been in Slytherin,” he said.   “Blimey,” saidJames, “andIthought you seemed all right!”   Sirius grinned.   “Maybe I’ll break the tradition. Where are you heading, if you’ve got the  choice?”   James lifted an invisible sword.   “’Gryffindor, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my dad.”   Snape madea small, disparaging noise.James turned on him.   “Got a problem with that?”   “No,” said Snape, though his slight sneer said otherwise. “If you’drather be  brawny than brainy—”   “Where’re you hoping to go, seeing as you’re neither?” interjected Sirius.   James roared with laughter. Lily sat up, rather flushed, and looked from  James to Sirius in dislike.   “Come on, Severus, let’s find another compartment.”   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    “Oooooo... ”   James and Sirius imitated her lofty voice;James tried to trip Snape as he  passed.   “See ya, Snivellus!” a voice called, as the compartment door slammed...   And the scene dissolved once more...   Harry was standing right behind Snape as they faced the candlelit House  tables, lined with rapt faces. Then Professor McGonagall said, “Evans, Lily!”   He watched his mother walk forward on trembling legs and sit down upon  the rickety stool. Professor McGonagall dropped the Sorting Hat onto her  head, and barely a second after it had touched the dark red hair, the hat cried,  “Gryffindor!”   Harry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off the hat, handed it  back to Professor McGonagall, then hurried toward the cheering Gryffindors,  but as she went she glanced backat Snape, and there was a sad little smile on  her face. Harry saw Sirius move up the benchto make room for her. She took  one look at him, seemed to recognize him from the train, folded her arms, and  firmly turned her back on him.   The roll call continued. Harrywatched Lupin,Pettigrew, and his father join  Lily and Sirius at the Gryffindor table. At last, when only a dozen students  remained to be sorted, Professor McGonagall called Snape.   Harry walked with him to the stool, watched him place the hat upon his  head. “Slytherin!” cried the Sorting Hat.   And Severus Snape moved off to the other side of the Hall, awayfrom Lily,  to where the Slytherins were cheering him, to where Lucius Malfoy, a prefect  badgegleaminguponhischest,pattedSnapeonthebackashesatdown beside  him...   And the scenechanged...   Lily and Snape werewalking across the castle courtyard, evidently arguing.  Harry hurried to catch up with them, to listen in. As he reached them, he  realized how muchtaller they both were. Afew years seemed to have passed  since their Sorting.   
 “... thought we were supposed to be friends?” Snape was saying, “Best  friends?”   “We are, Sev, butIdon’t like someof the people you’re hanging round with!  I’m sorry, butIdetestAvery and Mulciber! Mulciber! What do you see in him,  Sev, he’s creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary MacDonald the other  day?”   Lily had reached a pillar and leaned against it, looking up into the thin,  sallow face.   “That was nothing,” said Snape. “It was a laugh, that’s all—”   “It was Dark Magic, and if you think that’s funny—”   “What about the stuffPotter and his mates get up to?” demanded Snape.  His color rose again as he said it, unable, it seemed, to hold in his resentment.   “What’sPottergottodowith anything?” saidLily.   “They sneak out at night. There’ssomething weird about that Lupin. Where  does he keep going?”   “He’s ill,” said Lily. “They sayhe’s ill—”   “Every month at the full moon?” said Snape.   “I know your theory,” said Lily, and she sounded cold. “Why are you so  obsessed with them anyway? Why do you care what they’re doing at night?”   “I’m just trying to show you they’re not as wonderful as everyone seems to  think they are.”   The intensity of his gaze made her blush.   “They don’t use Dark Magic, though.” She dropped her voice. “And you’re  being really ungrateful. I heard what happened the other night. You went  sneaking down that tunnelby the WhompingWillow, andJamesPotter saved  you from whatever’s down there—”   Snape’s whole face contorted and he spluttered, “Saved? Saved? You think  he was playing the hero? He was saving his neckand his friends’ too! You’re  not going to—I won’t let you—”   “Let me? Let me?”   Lily’s bright green eyes were slits. Snape backtracked at once.   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    “I didn’t mean—I just don’t want to see you made a fool of—He fancies  you,JamesPotter fancies you!” The words seemed wrenched from him against  his will. “And he’s not... everyone thinks...big Quidditchhero—” Snape’s bitterness  and dislike were rendering him incoherent, and Lily’s eyebrows were  traveling farther and farther up her forehead.   “I knowJamesPotter’s an arrogant toerag,” she said, cutting across Snape.  “I don’t need you to tell me that. But Mulciber’s andAvery’s idea of humor is  just evil. Evil, Sev.Idon’t understand how you canbe friends with them.”   Harry doubted that Snape had even heard her strictures on Mulciber and  Avery. The moment she had insultedJamesPotter,his whole body had relaxed,  and as theywalkedawaytherewasa new springin Snape’s step...   And the scene dissolved...   Harrywatched again as Snape left the Great Hall aftersitting hisO.W.L.  in Defense Against the Dark Arts, watched as he wandered awayfrom the castle  and strayed inadvertently close to the place beneath the beech tree where  James, Sirius, Lupin, andPettigrew sat together. But Harry kept his distance  this time, because he knew what happened afterJames had hoisted Severus  into the air and taunted him; he knew what had been done and said, and it  gavehimno pleasureto hearit again...HewatchedasLily joinedthe group  and went to Snape’s defense. Distantly he heard Snape shout at her in his  humiliation and his fury, the unforgivable word: “Mudblood.”   The scenechanged...   “I’m sorry.”   “I’m not interested.”   “I’m sorry!”   “Save your breath.”   It was nighttime. Lily, who was wearing a dressing gown, stood with her  arms foldedin frontofthe portraitoftheFatLady,atthe entranceto Gryffindor  Tower.   “I only came out because Mary told me you were threatening to sleep here.”   “Iwas.Iwouldhavedone.I nevermeanttocallyou Mudblood,itjust—”   
 “Slipped out?” There was no pity in Lily’s voice. “It’s too late. I’ve made  excuses for you for years. None of my friends can understand whyI even talk  to you. You and your precious little Death Eater friends—you see, you don’t  evendenyit!Youdon’t evendenythat’swhatyou’reallaimingtobe!Youcan’t  wait to joinYou-Know-Who, can you?”   He opened his mouth, but closed it without speaking.   “I can’t pretend anymore.You’vechosen yourway, I’vechosen mine.”   “No—listen,Ididn’t mean—”   “—to call me Mudblood? But you call everyone of my birth Mudblood,  Severus.Why shouldIbeany different?”   He struggled on the verge of speech, but with a contemptuous look she  turned andclimbed backthrough the portrait hole...   The corridor dissolved, and the scene took a little longer to reform: Harry  seemed to fly through shifting shapes and colors until his surroundings solidified  again and he stood on a hilltop, forlorn and cold in the darkness, the wind  whistling through the branches of a few leafless trees. The adult Snape was  panting, turning on the spot, his wand gripped tightly in his hand, waiting for  somethingorfor someone...Hisfear infectedHarrytoo, eventhoughheknew  that he could not be harmed, and he looked over his shoulder, wondering what  it was that Snape was waiting for—   Thenablinding,jaggedjetofwhitelightflewthroughtheair. Harry thought  oflightning, but Snape had dropped to his knees and hiswand had flown out  of his hand.   “Don’t kill me!”   “That was not my intention.”   Anysoundof Dumbledore Apparatinghadbeen drownedbythesoundofthe  wind in the branches. He stood before Snape with his robes whipping around  him, and his face was illuminated from below in the light cast by his wand.   “Well, Severus? What message does LordVoldemorthave for me?”   “No—no message—I’m here on my own account!”   Snape was wringing his hands. He looked a little mad, with his straggling   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    blackhair flying around him.   “I—I come with a warning—no, a request—please—”   Dumbledore flicked hiswand. Though leaves and branches still flew through  the night air around them, silence fell on the spot where he and Snape faced  eachother.   “What request could a Death Eater make of me?”   “The—the prophecy...the prediction... Trelawney... ”   “Ah, yes,” said Dumbledore. “How muchdid you relayto LordVoldemort?”   “Everything—everythingIheard!” said Snape. “That is why—it is for that  reason—he thinks it means Lily Evans!”   “The prophecy did not refer to a woman,” said Dumbledore. “It spoke of a  boy bornattheendofJuly—”   “You know whatI mean! He thinks it means her son, he is going to hunt  her down—kill them all—”   “If she means so much to you,” said Dumbledore, “surely LordVoldemort  will spare her? Could you not ask for mercy for the mother, in exchange for the  son?”   “I have—I have asked him—”   “You disgust me,” said Dumbledore, and Harry had never heard so much  contempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a little, “You do not care, then,  about the deaths of her husband and child? They can die, as long as you have  what you want?”   Snape said nothing, but merely looked up at Dumbledore.   “Hide them all, then,” he croaked. “Keep her—them—safe. Please.”   “And what will you give me in return, Severus?”   “In—in return?” Snape gaped at Dumbledore, and Harry expected him to  protest, but after a long moment he said, “Anything.”   The hilltop faded, and Harry stood in Dumbledore’s office, and something  was making a terrible sound, like a wounded animal. Snape was slumped  forwardinachair and Dumbledorewas standing over him, looking grim. After  a moment or two, Snape raised his face, and he looked like a man who had   
 lived a hundred years of misery since leaving the wild hilltop.   “I thought...you were going...to keep her... safe...”   “She and James put their faith in the wrong person,” said Dumbledore.  “Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t you hoping that Lord Voldemort would  spare her?”   Snape’s breathing was shallow.   “Her boy survives,” said Dumbledore.   With a tiny jerk of the head, Snape seemed to flickoff an irksome fly.   “Her son lives. He has her eyes,precisely her eyes.You remember the shape  and colorof Lily Evans’s eyes,I am sure?”   “DON’T!” bellowed Snape. “Gone... dead... ”   “Is this remorse, Severus?”   “I wish...IwishI were dead... ”   “And what use would that be to anyone?” said Dumbledore coldly. “If you  loved Lily Evans, if you truly loved her, then your wayforward is clear.”   Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and Dumbledore’s words appeared  to take a long time to reachhim.   “What—what do you mean?”   “You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me  protect Lily’s son.”   “He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone—”   “The Dark Lord will return, and Harry Potter will be in terrible danger  when he does.”   There was a long pause, and slowly Snape regained control of himself,  mastered his own breathing. At last he said, “Very well. Very well. But  never—never tell, Dumbledore! This must be between us! Swear it! I cannot  bear... especiallyPotter’s son...I want your word!”   “My word, Severus, thatIshall never reveal the best of you?” Dumbledore  sighed, looking down into Snape’s ferocious, anguished face. “If you insist... ”   The office dissolvedbut re-formed instantly. Snapewas pacingupand down  in front of Dumbledore.   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    “—mediocre, arrogant as his father, a determined rule-breaker, delighted to  find himself famous, attention-seeking and impertinent—”   “You see what you expect to see,Severus,” said Dumbledore,without raising  his eyes from a copy of Transfiguration Today. “Other teachers report that  theboyis modest, likable,and reasonably talented. Personally,Ifindhiman  engaging child.”   Dumbledore turned a page, and said, without looking up, “Keep an eye on  Quirrell, won’t you?”   Awhirl of color, and now everything darkened, and Snape and Dumbledore  stooda little apartin the entrance hall, while the last stragglers from theYule  Ball passed them on their wayto bed.   “Well?” murmured Dumbledore.   “Karkaroff’s Mark is becoming darker too. He is panicking, he fears retribution;  you know how much help he gave the Ministry after the Dark Lord  fell.” Snape looked sideways at Dumbledore’s crooked-nosed profile. “Karkaroff  intends to flee if the Mark burns.”   “Does he?” said Dumbledore softly, as Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies  came giggling in from the grounds. “And are you tempted to join him?”   “No,” said Snape, his blackeyes on Fleur’s and Roger’s retreating figures. “I  am not such a coward.”   “No,” agreed Dumbledore. “You areabraver manbyfar than Igor Karkaroff.  You know,Isometimes think we Sort too soon...”   Hewalkedaway, leaving Snape looking stricken...   AndnowHarrystoodinthe headmaster’sofficeyetagain.Itwasnighttime,  and Dumbledore sagged sideways in the thronelike chair behind the desk, apparently  semiconscious. His right hand dangled over the side, blackened and  burned. Snape was muttering incantations, pointing his wand at the wrist of  the hand, while with his left hand he tipped a goblet full of thick golden potion  down Dumbledore’s throat. After a moment or two, Dumbledore’s eyelids  fluttered and opened.   “Why,” said Snape, without preamble, “why did you put on that ring? It   
 carries a curse, surely you realized that. Why even touchit?”   Marvolo Gaunt’s ring lay on the desk before Dumbledore. It was cracked;  the sword of Gryffindor laybeside it.   Dumbledore grimaced.   “I...wasa fool. Sorely tempted... ”   “Tempted by what?”   Dumbledore did not answer.   “It is a miracle you managed to return here!” Snape sounded furious. “That  ring carried a curse of extraordinary power, to contain it is all we can hope for;  Ihave trapped the curse in one hand for the time being—”   Dumbledore raised his blackened, useless hand, and examined it with the  expression of one being shown an interesting curio.   “Youhave done very well, Severus. How longdo you thinkIhave?”   Dumbledore’s tone was conversational; he might have been asking for a  weather forecast. Snape hesitated, and then said, “I cannot tell. Maybe a year.  There is no halting such a spell forever. It will spread eventually, it is the sort  of curse that strengthens over time.”   Dumbledore smiled. The news that he had less than a year to live seemed  a matter of little or no concern to him.   “I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, thatIhave you, Severus.”   “Ifyouhadonly summonedmea little earlier,Imighthavebeenabletodo  more, buy you more time!” said Snape furiously. He looked down at the broken  ring and the sword. “Did you think that breaking the ring would break the  curse?”   “Somethinglikethat...Iwas delirious,nodoubt... ”said Dumbledore.With  an effort he straightened himself in his chair. “Well, really, this makes matters  much more straightforward.”   Snape looked utterly perplexed. Dumbledore smiled.   “I refertotheplan LordVoldemortis revolving aroundme. Hisplantohave  the poor Malfoy boy murder me.”   Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often occupied, across the desk   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    from Dumbledore.Harrycouldtellthathewantedtosaymoreonthesubjectof  Dumbledore’s cursed hand, but the other held it up in polite refusal to discuss  the matter further. Scowling, Snape said, “The Dark Lord does not expect  Draco to succeed. This is merely punishment for Lucius’s recent failures. Slow  torture for Draco’s parents, while they watchhim fail and paythe price.”   “In short, the boy has had a death sentence pronounced upon him as surely  asIhave,” said Dumbledore. “Now,Ishouldhave thoughtthe natural successor  to the job, once Draco fails, is yourself?”   There was a short pause.   “That,Ithink,is the Dark Lord’s plan.”   “Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future when he will not  need a spy at Hogwarts?”   “He believes the school will soon be in his grasp, yes.”   “And if it does fall into his grasp,” said Dumbledore, almost, it seemed, as  an aside, “I have your word that you will do all in your power to protect the  students at Hogwarts?”   Snape gave a stiff nod.   “Good. Now then.Your first priority willbeto discover what Dracoisupto.  Afrightened teenage boy is a danger to others as well as to himself. Offer him  help and guidance, he ought to accept, he likes you—”   “—muchless since his father has lost favor. Draco blames me, he thinksI  have usurped Lucius’s position.”   “All the same, try.Iam concerned less for myselfthan for accidental victims  of whatever schemes might occur to the boy. Ultimately, of course, there is only  onethingtobedoneifwearetosavehimfromLordVoldemort’s wrath.”   Snape raised his eyebrows and his tone was sardonic as he asked, “Are you  intending to let him kill you?”   “Certainly not.You must kill me.”   There was a long silence, broken only by an odd clicking noise. Fawkes the  phoenix was gnawing a bit of cuttlebone.   “Would you like me to do it now?” asked Snape, his voice heavy with irony.   
 “Or would you like a few moments to compose an epitaph?”   “Oh, not quite yet,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “I daresaythe moment will  present itself in due course. Given what has happened tonight,” he indicated  his withered hand, “we can be sure that it will happen within a year.”   “If you don’t mind dying,” said Snape roughly, “why not let Draco do it?”   “That boy’s soul is not yet so damaged,” said Dumbledore. “I would not have  it ripped apart on my account.”   “And my soul, Dumbledore? Mine?”   “You alone know whether it will harm your soul to help an old man avoid  pain and humiliation,” said Dumbledore. “I ask this one great favor of you,  Severus,because death is coming for me as surely as the Chudley Cannons will  finish bottomof this year’s league.IconfessIshould prefera quick, painless  exit to the protracted and messy affair it will be if, for instance, Greyback is  involved—I hearVoldemort has recruited him? Or dear Bellatrix, who likes to  playwith her food before she eats it.”   His tone was light, but his blue eyes pierced Snape as they had frequently  pierced Harry, as though the soul they discussed was visible to him. At last  Snape gave another curt nod.   Dumbledore seemed satisfied.   “Thank you, Severus... ”   The office disappeared, and now Snape and Dumbledore were strolling together  in the deserted castle grounds by twilight.   “What are you doing with Potter, all these evenings you are closeted together?”  Snape asked abruptly.   Dumbledore looked weary.   “Why?You aren’t tryingtogivehim more detentions, Severus? Theboy will  soon have spent more time in detention than out.”   “He is his father over again—”   “In looks, perhaps, but his deepest natureis much more like his mother’s.I  spend time with Harry becauseIhave things to discuss with him, information  Imust give him before it is too late.”   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    “Information,” repeatedSnape.“You trusthim...youdonot trustme.”   “It is not a question of trust. I have, as we both know, limited time. It is  essentialthatIgivetheboyenough informationforhimtodowhatheneedsto  do.”   “AndwhymayInothavethe same information?”   “I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one basket, particularly not a basket  that spends so muchtime dangling on the armof LordVoldemort.”   “WhichIdo on your orders!”   “And you do it extremely well. Do not think thatIunderestimate the constant  danger in which you place yourself, Severus. To give Voldemort what  appearstobe valuable information while withholdingthe essentialsisajobI  would entrust to nobody but you.”   “Yetyou confide much moreinaboywhois incapableofOcclumency, whose  magicis mediocre,andwhohasadirect connectionintotheDarkLord’smind!”   “Voldemort fears that connection,” said Dumbledore. “Not so long ago he  had one small taste of what truly sharing Harry’s mind means to him. It was  pain such as he has never experienced. He will not try to possess Harry again,  Iam sure of it. Not in that way.”   “I don’t understand.”   “Lord Voldemort’s soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear close contact with a  soul like Harry’s. Like a tongue on frozen steel, like flesh in flame—”   “Souls?We were talkingof minds!”   “Inthe caseofHarryandLordVoldemort,tospeakofoneistospeakofthe  other.”   Dumbledore glanced around to make sure that they were alone. They were  closeby theForbiddenForest now, but therewas no signof anyone near them.   “After you have killed me, Severus—”   “You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that small service of me!”  snarled Snape, and real anger flared in the thin face now. “You take a great  deal for granted, Dumbledore!PerhapsIhavechangedmy mind!”   “You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are talking about services   
 you owe me,Ithought you agreed to keepaclose eye on our young Slytherin   friend?”   Snape looked angry, mutinous. Dumbledore sighed.   “Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and you shall not complain  thatIhave no confidencein you... ”   They were backin Dumbledore’s office, the windows dark, andFawkes sat  silent as Snape sat quite still, as Dumbledore walked around him, talking.   “Harry must not know, not until the last moment, not until it is necessary,  otherwise how could he have the strength to do what must be done?”   “But what must he do?”   “That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely, Severus. There will  come a time—after my death—do not argue, do not interrupt! There will come  atimewhenLordVoldemortwill seemtofearforthelifeofhis snake.”   “For Nagini?” Snape looked astonished.   “Precisely. If there comesa time when LordVoldemort stops sending that  snake forthto do his bidding, but keeps it safe beside him under magical protection,  then,Ithink,it willbe safeto tell Harry.”   “Tell him what?”   Dumbledore took a deep breath and closed his eyes.   “Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill him, when Lily  cast her own life between them as a shield, the Killing Curse rebounded upon  LordVoldemort,anda fragmentofVoldemort’s soulwas blasted apart fromthe  whole,and latched itself onto the only living soul left in that collapsed building.  Part of LordVoldemort lives inside Harry, and it is that which gives him the  power of speech with snakes, and a connection with Lord Voldemort’s mind  that he has never understood. And while that fragment of soul, unmissed by  Voldemort, remains attachedtoand protectedbyHarry,LordVoldemort cannot  die.”   Harry seemed to be watching the two men from one end of a long tunnel,  they were so far awayfrom him, their voices echoing strangely in his ears.   “Sotheboy...theboymustdie?” askedSnapequitecalmly.   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    “AndVoldemort himself mustdoit, Severus. Thatis essential.”   Anotherlong silence.ThenSnapesaid,“Ithought...allthoseyears...that  we were protecting him for her.For Lily.”   “We have protected him because it has been essential to teachhim, to raise  him, to let him try his strength,” said Dumbledore, his eyes still tight shut.  “Meanwhile, the connection between them grows ever stronger, a parasitic  growth. SometimesI have thought he suspects it himself. IfI know him, he  will have arranged matters so that when he does set out to meet his death, it  will truly mean the endofVoldemort.”   Dumbledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified.   “You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right moment?”   “Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and women have you watched  die?”   “Lately, only those whomIcould not save,” said Snape. He stood up. “You  have used me.”   “Meaning?”   “I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in mortal danger for you.  Everythingwas supposedtobetokeepLilyPotter’s son safe. Nowyou tellme  you have been raising him like a pig for slaughter—”   “But this is touching,Severus,” said Dumbledore seriously. “Have you grown  to care for the boy, after all?”   “For him?” shouted Snape. “ExpectoPatronum!”   From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe. She landed on the office floor,  bounded once across the office, and soared out of the window. Dumbledore  watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded he turned back to Snape,  and his eyes were full of tears.   “After all this time?”   “Always,” said Snape.   And the scene shifted. Now, Harry saw Snape talking to the portrait of  Dumbledore behind his desk.   “YouwillhavetogiveVoldemortthe correctdateofHarry’s departurefrom   
 his aunt and uncle’s,” said Dumbledore. “Not to do so will raise suspicion,  whenVoldemort believes you so well informed. However, you must plant the  idea of decoys; that,I think, ought to ensure Harry’s safety. Try Confunding  Mundungus Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to take part in the chase,  be sure to act your part convincingly...I am counting upon you to remain in  LordVoldemort’sgood booksaslongas possible, orHogwartswillbelefttothe  mercyof the Carrows... ”   Now Snape was head to head with Mundungus in an unfamiliar tavern,  Mundungus’s face looking curiously blank, Snape frowning in concentration.   “You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix,” Snape murmured, “that they  use decoys.PolyjuicePotion. IdenticalPotters. It’s the only thing that might  work. You will forget thatI have suggested this. You will present it as your  own idea.You understand?”   “I understand,” murmured Mundungus, his eyes unfocused...   Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a broomstick through a clear  dark night: He was accompanied by other hooded Death Eaters, and ahead  were Lupin anda Harry whowas really George...ADeath Eater moved ahead  of Snape and raised his wand, pointing it directly at Lupin’s back.   “Sectumsempra!” shouted Snape.   But the spell, intended for the Death Eater’s wand hand, missed and hit  George instead—   And next, Snapewas kneelingin Sirius’s old bedroom.Tears were dripping  from the end of his hooked nose as he read the old letter from Lily. The second  page carried only a few words:   could ever have been friends with Gellert Grindelwald. I think  her mind’s going, personally! Lots of love,  Lily   Snape took the page bearing Lily’s signature, and her love, and tucked it  inside his robes. Then he ripped in two the photograph he was also holding, so  that he kept the part from whichLily laughed, throwing the portion showing   
 CHAPTER  33.  THE  PRINCE’S  TALE    James and Harry backonto the floor, under thechestof drawers...   And now Snape stood again in the headmaster’s study as Phineas Nigellus  came hurrying into his portrait.   “Headmaster!TheyarecampingintheForestofDean!The Mudblood—”   “Do not use that word!”   “—the Granger girl, then, mentioned the place as she opened her bag andI  heard her!”   “Good. Very good!” cried the portrait of Dumbledore behind the headmaster’s  chair. “Now, Severus, the sword! Do not forget that it must be taken  under conditions of need and valor—and he must not know that you give it! If  Voldemort should read Harry’s mind and see you acting for him—”   “I know,” said Snape curtly. He approached the portrait of Dumbledore and  pulled at its side. It swung forward, revealing a hidden cavity behind it from  whichhe took the sword of Gryffindor.   “And you still aren’t going to tell me why it’s so important to givePotter the  sword?” said Snape as he swung a traveling cloak over his robes.   “No,I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore’s portrait. “He will know what to  do with it. And Severus, be very careful, they may not take kindly to your  appearance after GeorgeWeasley’s mishap—”   Snape turned at the door.   “Don’t worry, Dumbledore,”he said coolly.“Ihavea plan... ”   And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of thePensieve, and moments  later he lay on the carpeted floor in exactly the same room; Snape might just  have closed the door.   
 Chapter  34    The  Forest  Again    F F inally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the dusty carpet  of the office where he had once thought he was learning the secrets  of victory, Harry understood at last that he was not supposed to  survive. His job was to walk calmly into Death’s welcoming arms. Along the  way, he was to dispose of Voldemort’s remaining links to life, so that when  atlastheflung himself across Voldemort’spath,anddidnotraiseawandto  defend himself, the end would be clean, and the job that ought to have been  done in Godric’s Hollow would be finished: Neither would live, neither could  survive.   He felt his heart pounding fiercely in his chest. How strange that in his  dread of death, it pumped all the harder, valiantly keeping him alive. But it  would have to stop,and soon. Its beats were numbered. How many would there  be time for, as he rose and walked through the castle for the last time, out into  the grounds and into the forest?   Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that funeral drum  pounding inside him. Would it hurt to die? All those times he had thought  that it was about to happen and escaped, he had never really thought of the  thing itself: His will to live had always been so muchstronger than his fear of  death.Yet it did not occur to him now to try to escape, to outrunVoldemort. It   583   
 CHAPTER  34.  THE  FOREST  AGAIN    was over, he knew it, and all that was left was the thing itself: dying.   If he could only have died on that summer’s night when he had left number  four, Privet Drive, for the last time, when the noble phoenix-feather wand had  saved him! If he could only have died like Hedwig, so quickly he would not  have known it had happened! Or if he could have launched himself in front of  awand to save someone he loved.... He envied even his parents’ deaths now.  This cold-blooded walk to his own destruction would require a different kind  of bravery. He felt his fingers trembling slightly and made an effort to control  them, although no one could see him; the portraits on thewalls were all empty.   Slowly, very slowly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt more alive and more  aware of his own living body than ever before. Why had he never appreciated  what a miracle he was, brain and nerve and bounding heart? It would all be  gone...orat least,he wouldbe gone fromit. His breath came slowanddeep,  and his mouth and throat were completely dry, but so were his eyes.   Dumbledore’s betrayal was almost nothing. Of course there had been a  bigger plan; Harry had simply been too foolish to see it, he realized that now.  He had never questioned that his own assumption: that Dumbledore wanted  him alive. Nowh saw that his life span had always been determinedby how  long it took to eliminate all the Horcruxes. Dumbledore had passed the job of  destroying them to him, and obediently he had continued to chip away at the  bonds tying not onlyVoldemort, but himself, to life! How neat, how elegant,  not to waste any more lives, but to give the dangerous task to the boy who had  already been marked for slaughter, and whose death would not me a calamity,  but another blow againstVoldemort.   And Dumbledore had known that Harry would not duckout, that he would  keepgoingtotheend, eventhoughitwas his end, because he had taken trouble  to get to know him, hadn’t he? Dumbledore knew, as Voldemort knew, that  Harry would not let anyone else die for him now that he had discovered it was  in his power to stop it. The images ofFred, Lupin, andTonks lying dead in  the Great Hall forced theirwaybackintohis mind’seye,andfora momenthe  could hardly breathe: Deathwas impatient....   
 But Dumbledore had overestimated him. He had failed: The snake survived.  One Horcrux remained to bindVoldemort to the earth, even after Harry  had been killed. True, that would mean an easier job for somebody. He wondered  who would do it.... Ron and Hermione would know what needed to be  done,of course.... That wouldhavebeenwhy Dumbledorewantedhimto confideintwo  others ...sothatifhe fulfilledhis true destinya littleearly,they  could carry on....   Like rain on a cold window, these thoughts pattered against the hard surface  of the incontrovertible truth, which was that he must doe. Imust die. It  must end.   Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far-off country; he felt as  though he had parted from them long ago. There would be no good-byes and  no explanations, he was determined of that. This was a journey they could  not take together, and the attempts they would make to stop him would waste  valuable time. He looked down at the battered gold watchhe had received on  his seventeenth birthday. Nearly halfof the hour allottedbyVoldemort for his  surrenderhad elapsed.Hestoodup.Hisheartwas leaping againsthisribslike  afranticbird.Perhapsitknewithadlittletimeleft,perhapsitwas determined  to fulfill a lifetime’s beats before the end. He didnot look back as he closed the  office door.   The castle was empty. He felt ghostly striding through it alone, as if he  had already died. The portrait people were still missing from their frames; the  whole place was eerily still, as if all its remaining lifeblood were concentrated  in the Great Hall where the dead and the mourners were crammed.   Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak over himself and descended through the  floors, at last walking down the marble staircase into the entrance hall. Perhaps  some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed, to be seen, to be stopped, but  the Cloak was, as ever, impenetrable, perfect, and he reached the front doors  easily.   Then Neville nearlywalkedinto him. Hewas only halfofa pair thatwas  carryinga bodyin from the grounds. Harry glanced down and felt another dull   
 CHAPTER  34.  THE  FOREST  AGAIN    blow to his stomach: Colin Creevey, though underage, must have sneaked back  just as Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had done. He was tiny in death.   “You know what?I can manage him along, Neville,” said OliverWood, and  he heaved Colin over his shoulder if a fireman’s lift and carried him into the  Great Hall.   Neville leaned against the door frame fora moment and wiped his forehead  withthebackofhishand.Helookedlikeanold man.Thenhesetoffdownthe  stops again into the darkness to recover more bodies.   Harry took one glance backat the entrance of the Great Hall. People were  moving around, trying to comfort each other, drinking, kneeling beside the  dead, but he could not see any of the people he loved, no hint of Hermione,  Ron,Ginny,oranyofthe otherWeasleys,no Luna.Hefelthe wouldhavegiven  all the time remaining to him for just one last look at them; but then, would he  ever have the strength to stop looking? It was better like this.   He moved down the steps and out into the darkness. It was nearly four in  the morning, and the deathly stillness of the grounds felt as though they were  holding their breath, waiting to see whether he could do what he must.   Harry moved toward Neville, who was bending over another body.   “Neville.”   “Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure!”   Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to him out of nowhere,  born out of a desire to make absolutely sure.   “Where are you going, alone?” Neville asked suspiciously.   “It’s all part of the plan,” said Harry. “There’s something I’ve got to do.  Listen—Neville—”   “Harry!” Neville looked suddenly scared. “Harry, you’re not thinking of  handing yourself over?”   “No,” Harry lied easily. “’Course not ... this is something else. ButImight  beoutofsightfora while. YouknowVoldemort’s name, Neville? He’sgota  huge snake.... Callsit Nagini... ”   “I’ve heard, yeah.... What about it?”   
 “It’s got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that, but just in case they—”   The awfulness of that possibility smothered him for a moment, made it  impossible to keep talking. But he pulled himself together again; This was  crucial, he must be like Dumbledore, keep a cool head, make sure there were  backups, others to carry on. Dumbledore had died knowing that three people  still knew about the Horcruxes; now Neville will take Harry’s place. There  would still be three in the secret.   “Just in case they’re—busy—and you get the chance—”   “Kill the snake?”   “Kill the snake,” Harry repeated.   “All right, Harry,You’re okay, are you?”   “I’m fine. Thanks, Neville.”   But Neville seized his wrist as Harry made to move on.   “We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry.You know that?”   “Yeah, I—”   The suffocating feeling extinguished the end of the sentence; he could not  go on. Neville did not seem to find it strange. He patted Harry on the shoulder,  released him, and walked awayto look for more bodies.   Harry swing the Cloak backover himself andwalked on. Someone eyeswas  moving not faraway, stooping over another prone figure on the ground. Hewas  feet awayfrom her when he realized it was Ginny.   He stoppedinhis tracks. Shewas crouching overagirlwhowas whispering  for her mother.   “It’sallright,”Ginnywassaying.“It’sokay.We’regoingtogetyou inside.”   “ButIwant to go home,” whisperedthegirl.“I don’twanttofight anymore!”   “I know,” said Ginny, and her voice broke. “It’s going to be all right.”   Ripples of cold undulated over Harry’s skin. He wanted to shout out to the  night, he wanted Ginny to know that he was there, he wanted her to know  where he was going. He wanted to be stopped, to be dragged back, to be sent  backhome....   Ginny was kneeling beside the injured girl now, holding her hand. With a   
 CHAPTER  34.  THE  FOREST  AGAIN    huge effort Harry forced himself on. He thought he saw Ginny look around as  he passed, and wondered whether she had seen someone walking nearby, but  he did not speak, and he did not look back.   Hagrid’s hut loomed out of the darkness. There were no lights, no sound  ofFang scrabbling at the door, his bark booming in welcome. All those visits  to Hagrid, and the gleam of the copper kettle on the fire, and rock cakes and  giant grubs, and his great bearded face,and Ron vomiting slugs, and Hermione  helping him save Norbert ...   He moved on, and now he reached the edge of the forest, and he stopped.   A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees; he could feel their  chill, and he was not sure he would be able to pass safely through it. He had  no strength left foraPatronus. He could no longer control his own trembling.  It was not, after all, so easy to die. Every second he breathed, the smell of the  grass, the cool air on his face, was so precious: To think that people had years  and years, time to waste, so muchtime it dragged, and he was clinging to each  second. At the same time he thought that he would not be able to go on, and  knew that he must. The long game was ended, the Snitchhad been caught, it  was time to leave the air....   The Snitch. His nerveless fingers fumbled for a moment with the pouchat  his neckand he pulled it out.   Iopen at the close.   Breathing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now that he wanted time to  move as slowly as possible, it seemed to have sped up, and understanding was  coming so fast it seemed to have bypassed thought. This was the close. This  was the moment.   He pressed the golden metal to his lips and whispered, “I am about to die.”   The metal shell broke open. He lowered his shaking hand, raised Draco’s  wand beneath the Cloak, and murmured, “Lumos.”   The blackstone with its jagged crackrunning down the center sat in the two  halves of the Snitch. The Resurrection Stone had cracked down the vertical line  representing the ElderWand. The triangle and circle representing the Cloak   
 and the stone were still discernible.   And again Harry understood without having to think. It did not matter  about bringingthemback,forhewasabouttojointhem. Hewasnotreally  fetching them: They were fetching him.   He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his hand three times.   He knew it had happened, because he heard slight movements around him  that suggested frail bodies shifting their footing on the earthly, twig-strewn  ground that marked the outer edge of the forest. He opened his eyes and looked  around.   They were neither ghost nor truly flesh, he could see that. They resembled  most closely the Riddle that had escaped from the diary so long ago, and he  had been memory made nearly solid. less substantial than living bodies, but  much more than ghosts, they moved toward him, and on eachface, there was  the same loving smile.   James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was wearing the clothes  inwhichhehaddied,andhishairwasuntidyand ruffled,andhis glasses were  a little lopsided, likeMr.Weasley’s.   Siriuswas tall and handsome, and youngerby far than Harry had seen him  in life. He loped with an easy grace, his hands in his pockets and a grin on his  face.   Lupin was younger too, and muchless shabby, and his hair was thicker and  darker. He looked happy to be back in this familiar place, scene of so many  adolescent wanderings.   Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair back as she drew  close to him, and her green eyes, so like his, searched his face hungrily, as  though she would never be able to look at him enough.   “You’ve been so brave.”   He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he thought that he would  like to stand and look at her forever, and that would be enough.   “You are nearly there,” saidJames.“Veryclose.We are...so proudof you.”   “Does it hurt?”   
 CHAPTER  34.  THE  FOREST  AGAIN    The childish question had fallen from Harry’s lips before he could stop it.   “Dying? Not at all,” said Sirius. “Quicker and easier than falling asleep.”   “And he will want to be quick. He wants it over,” said Lupin.   “I didn’t want you to die,” Harry said. These words came without his volition.  “Any of you. I’m sorry—”   He addressed Lupin more than any of them, beseeching him.   “—right after you’dhad your son ... Remus, I’m sorry—”   “Iamsorrytoo,” saidLupin. “SorryIwill neverknowhim...buthewill  knowwhyIdiedandIhopehe will understand.I was tryingto makea world  in whichhe could live a happier life.”   A chilly breeze that seemed to emanate from the heart of the forest lifted  the hair at Harry’s brow. He knew that they would not tell him to go, that it  would have to be his decision.   “You’ll staywith me?”   “Until the very end,” saidJames.   “They won’t be able to see you?” asked Harry.   “We are part of you,” said Sirius. “Invisible to anyone else.”   Harry looked at his mother.   “Stay close to me,” he said quietly.   And he self off. The dementors’ chill did not overcome him; he passed  through it with his companions, and they acted like Patronuses to him, and  together they marched through the old trees that grew closely together, their  branches tangled, their roots gnarled and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched  the Cloak tightly around him in the darkness, traveling deeper and deeper  into the forest, with no idea where exactly Voldemort was, but sure that he  would find him. Beside him, making scarcely a sound,walkedJames, Sirius,  Lupin, and Lily, and their presence was his courage, and the reason he was  about to keep putting one foot in front of the other.   His body and mind felt oddly disconnected now, his limbs working without  conscious instruction, as if he were passenger, not driver, in the body he was  about to leave. The dead who walked beside him through the forest were much   
 more real to him now that the living backat the castle: Ron, Hermione, Ginny,  and all the others were the ones who felt like ghosts as he stumbled and slipped  toward the endof his life, towardVoldemort....   Athud andawhisper. Some other living creature had stirredclosebyHarry  stopped under the Cloak, peering around, listening, and his mother and father,  Lupin and Sirius stopped too.   “Someone there,” came a rough whisper close at hand. “He’s got an Invisibility  Cloak. Could it be—?”   Two figures emerged from behind a nearby tree; Their wands flared and  Harry sawYaxley and Dolohov peering into the darkness, directly at the place  Harry, his mother and father and Sirius and Lupin stood. Apparently they  could not see anything.   “Definitely heard something,” saidYaxley. “Animal, d’you reckon?”   “That head case Hagrid kept a whole bunchof stuff in here,” said Dolohov,  glancing over his shoulder.   Yaxley looked down at his watch.   “Time’s nearlyup.Potter’s had his hour. He’s not coming.”   “And he was sure he’dcome! He won’t be happy.”   “Bettergo back,” saidYaxley,“Find out what the planis now.”   He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the forest. Harry followed  them, knowing that they would lead him exactly where he wanted to go. He  glanced sideways, and his mother smiled at him, and his father nodded encouragement.    They had traveled on mere minutes when Harry saw light ahead, andYaxley  and Dolohov stepped out into a clearing that Harry knew had been the  place where the monstrous Aragog had once lived. The remnants of his vast  web were there still, but the swarm of descendants he had spawned had been  driven out by the Death Eaters, to fight for their cause.   Afire burned in the middle of the clearing, and its flickering light fell over  a crowd of completely silent, watchful Death Eaters. Some of them were still  masked and hooded; others showed their faces. Two giants sat on the outskirts   
 CHAPTER  34.  THE  FOREST  AGAIN    of the group, casting massive shadows over the scene, their faces cruel, rough- hewn like rock. Harry sawFenrir, skulking,chewing his long nails; the great  blonde Rowle was dabbing at his bleeding lip. He saw Lucius Malfoy, who  looked defeated an terrified, and Narcissa, whose eyes were sunken and full of  apprehension.   Every eyewas fixed uponVoldemort, who stood with his head bowed, and  his white hands folded over the ElderWand in front of him. He might have  been praying, or else counting silently in his mind, and Harry, standing still on  the edge of the scene, thought absurdly of a child counting in a game of hideand- seek. Behind him head, still swirling and coiling, the great snake Nagini  floated in her glittering, charmed cage, like a monstrous halo.   When Dolohov andYaxley rejoined the circle,Voldemort lookedup.   “No sign of him, my Lord,” said Dolohov.   Voldemort’s expression did not change. The red eyes seemed to burn in the  firelight. Slowlyhe drew the ElderWand between his long fingers.   “My Lord—”   Bellatrix had spoken; She satclosest toVoldemort, disheveled, her facea  little bloody but otherwise unharmed.   Voldemort raised his hand to silence her, and she did not speak another  word, but eyed him in worshipful fascination.   “Ithoughthewould come,”saidVoldemortinhishigh,clearvoice,hiseyes  on the leaping flames. “I expected him to come.”   Nobody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry, whose heart was now  throwing itself against his ribs as though determined to escape the body he  was about to cast aside. He hands were swearing as he pulled off the Invisibility  Cloak and stuffed it beneath his robes, with his wand. He did not want to  be tempted to fight.   “Iwas,it seems... mistaken,” saidVoldemort.   “You weren’t.”   Harry said it as loudly as he could, with all the force he could muster. He  did notwant to sound afraid. The Resurrection Stone slipped from between his   
 numb fingers, and out of the corner of his eyes he saw his parents, Sirius, and  Lupin vanish as he stepped forward into the firelight. At that moment he felt  thatnobody matteredbutVoldemort.Itwasjustthetwoofthem.   The illusion was gone as soon as it had come. The giants roared as the  Death Eaters rose together, and there were many cries, gasps, even laughter.  Voldemort had frozen where he stood, but his red eyes had found Harry, and he  stared at Harry moved toward him, with nothing but the fire between them.   Then a voice yelled, “HARRY! NO!”   He turned: Hagrid was bound and trussed, tied to a tree nearby. His massive  body shook the branches overhead as he struggled, desperate.   “NO! NO! HARRY, WHAT’RE YEH—?”   “QUIET!” shouted Rowle, and with a flickof his wand Hagrid was silenced.   Bellatrix,whohadleapttoherfeet,was looking eagerlyfromVoldemortto  Harry, her breast heaving. The only things that moved were the flames and the  snake, coiling and uncoilingin the glittering cage behindVoldemort’s head.   Harry could feel his wand against his chest, but he made not attempt to  draw it. He knew that the snake was too well protected, knew that if he managed  to point the wand at Nagini, fifty curses would hit him first. And still,  Voldemort and Harry looked at eachother, and nowVoldemort tilted his head  a little to the side, considering the boy standing before him, and a singularly  mirthless smile curled the lipless mouth.   “Harry Potter,” he said very softly His voice might have been part of the  splitting fire. “The Boy Who Lived.”   None of the DeathEaters moved. They were waiting: Everything was waiting.  Hagrid was struggling, and Bellatrix was panting, and Harry thought  inexplicably of Ginny, and her blazing look, and the feel of her lips on his—   Voldemort had raised his wand. His head was still tilted to one side, like  a curious child, wondering what would happen if he proceeded. Harry looked  back into the red eyes, and wanted it to happen now, quickly, while he could  still stand, before he lost control, before he betrayed fear—   He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light, and everything was   
 CHAPTER  34.  THE  FOREST  AGAIN    gone.   
 Chapter  35    King’s  Cross    H H e layfacedown, listening to the silence. He was perfectly alone.  Nobody was watching. Nobody else was there. He was not perfectly  sure that he was there himself.   Along time later, or maybe no time at all, it came to him that he must exist,  mustbe more than disembodied thought, becausehewas lying,definitely lying,  on some surface. Therefore he had a sense of touch, and the thing against  whichhe layexisted too.   Almost as soon as he had reached this conclusion, Harry became conscious  that he was naked. Convinced as he was of his total solitude, this did not  concern him, but it did intrigue him slightly. He wondered whether, as he  could feel, he would be able to see. In opening them, he discovered that he had  eyes.   Helayinabrightmist,throughitwasnotlikemisthehadever experienced  before. His surroundings were not hidden by cloudy vapor; rather the cloudy  vapor had not yet formed into surroundings. The floor on whichhe layseemed  to be white, neither warm nor cold, but simply there, a flat, blank something  on whichto be.   He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched his face. He was not  wearing glasses anymore.   595   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    Then a noise reached him through the unformed nothingness that surrounded  him: the small soft thumpings of something that flapped, flailed, and  struggled. It was a pitiful noise, yet also slight indecent. He had the uncomfortable  feeling that he was eavesdropping on something furtive, shameful.   For the first time, he wished he were clothed.   Barely had the wish formed in his head than robes appeared a short distance  away. He took them and put them on. They were soft, clean, and warm.  It was extraordinary how they had appeared just like that, the moment he had  wanted them....   He stood up, looking around. Was he in some great Room of Requirement?  The longer he looked, the more there was to see. A great domed glass roof  glittered high above him in sunlight. Perhaps it was a palace. All was hushed  and still, except for those odd thumping and whimpering noises coming from  somewhereclosebyin the mist....   Harry turned slowly on the spot, and his surroundings seemed to invent  themselves before his eyes. Awide-open space, bright and clean, a hall larger  by far than the Great Hall, with that clear domed glass ceiling. It was quite  empty. He was the only person there, except for—   He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was making the noise. It had  the form of a small, naked child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and rough,  flayed-looking, and it lay shuddering under a seat where it had been left, unwanted,  stuffed out of sight, struggling for breath.   Hewasafraidofit. Smallandfragileand woundedthoughitwas,hedidnot  want to approachit. Nevertheless he drew slowly nearer, ready to jump back  at any moment. Soon he stood near enough to touchit, yet he could not bring  himself to do it. He felt like a coward. He ought to comfort it, but it repulsed  him.   “You cannot help.”   He spun around. Albus Dumbledorewaswalking toward him, sprightly and  upright, wearing sweeping robes of midnight blue.   “Harry,” He spread his arms wide,and his hands were both whole and white   
 597   and undamaged.“You wonderfulboy.Youbrave,brave man.Letuswalk.”   Stunned, Harry followed as Dumbledore strodeawayfrom where the flayed  child laywhimpering, leading him to two seats that Harry had not previously  noticed, set some distance away under that high, sparkling ceiling. Dumbledore  sat down in one of them, and Harry fell into the other, staring at his old  headmaster’s face. Dumbledore’s long silver hair and beard, the piercingly blue  eyes behind half-moon spectacles, the crooked nose: Everything was as he had  remembered it. And yet...   “But you’re dead.” said Harry.   “Oh yes,” said Dumbledore matter-of-factly.   “Then...I’m dead too?”   “Ah,” said Dumbledore, smiling still more broadly. “That is the question,  isn’t it? On the whole, dear boy,Ithink not.”   They looked at eachother, the old man still beaming.   “Not?” repeated Harry.   “Not,” said Dumbledore.   “But... ”Harryraisedhishand instinctivelytowardsthelightningscar.It   did not seem to be there. “ButI should have died—I didn’t defend myself! I   meant to let him kill me!”   “And that,” said Dumbledore, “will,Ithink,have made all the difference.”   Happiness seemed to radiate from Dumbledore like light, like fire: Harry   had never seen the man so utterly, so palpably, content.   “Explain,” said Harry.   “But you already know,” said Dumbledore. He twiddled his thumbs together.   “I let him kill me,” said Harry. “Didn’t I?”   “You did,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Go on!”   “Sothepartofhis soul thatwasinme... ”   Dumbledore nodded still more enthusiastically, urging Harry onward, a  broad smile of encouragement on his face.   “...hasit gone?”   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    “Oh yes!” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he destroyed it. Your soul is whole, and  completely your own, Harry.”   “But then... ”   Harry glanced over his shoulder to where the small, maimed creature trembled  under the chair.   “What is that, Professor?”   “Something that is beyond either of our help,” said Dumbledore.   “ButifVoldemort used the Killing Curse,” Harry started again “and nobody  died for me this time—how canIbe alive?”   “I think you know,” said Dumbledore. “Think back. Remember what he did,  in his ignorance, in his greed and his cruelty.”   Harry thought. He let his gaze drift over his surroundings. If this was  indeed a palace in which they sat, it was an odd one, with chairs set in little  rows and bits of railing here and there, and still, he and Dumbledore and the  stunted creature under the chair were the only beings there. Then the answer  rose to his lips easily, without effort.   “He took my blood.” said Harry.   “Precisely!” said Dumbledore. “He took your blood and rebuilt his living  bodywithit!Yourbloodinhisveins,Harry,Lily’s protectioninsidebothofyou!  He tethered you to life while he lives!”   “I live ...whilehe lives! ButI thought ...I thoughtitwasthe otherway  round!Ithoughtwebothhadtodie?Orisitthe same thing?”   He was distracted by the whimpering and thumping of the agonized creature  behind them and glanced backat it yet again.   “Are you sure we can’t do anything?”   “There is no help possible.”   “Then explain ... more,” said Harry, and Dumbledore smiled.   “You were the seventh Horcrux, Harry, the Horcrux he never meant to  make. He had rendered his soul so unstable that it broke apart when he  committed those acts of unspeakable evil, the murder of your parents, the attempted  killingofachild. But what escaped from that roomwas even less than   
 he knew. He left more than his body behind. He left part of himself latched to  you, the would-be victim who had survived.   “And his knowledge remained woefully incomplete,Harry! That whichVoldemort  does not value, he takes no trouble to comprehend. Of house-elves and  children’s tales, of love, loyalty, and innocence, Voldemort knows and understands  nothing. Nothing. That they all have a power beyond his own, a power  beyond the reachof any magic, is a truth he has never grasped.   “Hetookyourbloodbelievingitwould strengthenhim.Hetookintohisbody  a tiny part of the enchantment your mother laid upon you when she died for  you. His body keeps her sacrifice alive, and while that enchantment survives,  sodo you and so doesVoldemort’s one last hope for himself.”   Dumbledore smiled at Harry, and Harry stared at him.   “And you knew this?You knew—all along?”   “I guessed. But my guesses have usually been good,” said Dumbledore happily, andtheysatin silenceforwhat seemedlikealongtime,whilethe creature  behind them continued to whimper and tremble.   “There’smore,”saidHarry. “There’smoretoit.Whydidmywandbreakthe  wand he borrowed?”   “Asto that,Icannotbe sure.”   “Have a guess, then,” said Harry, and Dumbledore laughed.   “What you must understand, Harry, is that you and LordVoldemort have  journeyed together into realms of magic hitherto unknown and unprecedented,  and no wandmaker could, I think, ever have predicted it or explained it to  Voldemort.   “Without meaning to, as you now know, LordVoldemort doubled the bond  between you when he returned to a human form. A part of his soul was still  attached to yours, and, thinking to strengthen himself, he took a part of your  mother’s sacrifice into himself. If he could only have understood the precise  and terrible power of that sacrifice, he would not, perhaps, had dared to touch  your blood.... But then, if he had been able to understand, he could not be  LordVoldemort,andmight neverhave murderedatall.   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    “Having ensured this two-fold connection, having wrapped your destinies  together more securely than ever two wizards were joinedin history,Voldemort  proceeded to attackyou with a wand that shared a core with yours. And now  something very strange happened, as we know. The cores reactedinawaythat  LordVoldemort,who neverknewthatyourwandwasatwinofhis,had never  expected.   “He was more afraid than you were that night, Harry. You had accepted,  even embraced, the possibility of death, something LordVoldemort has never  been able to do. Your courage won, your wand overpowered his. And in doing  so, something happened between those wands, something that echoed the  relationship between their masters.   “I believe that yourwand imbibed someof the power and qualitiesofVoldemort’swand  that night, whichistosaythatit containeda littleofVoldemort  himself. So your wand recognized him when he pursued you, recognized a man  whowasbothkinandmortalenemy,andit regurgitatedsomeofhisownmagic  against him, magic muchmore powerful than anything Lucius’swand had ever  performed.Yourwand now contained the powerof your enormous courage and  ofVoldemort’sowndeadly skill:Whatchancedidthatpoorstickof LuciusMalfoy’s  stand?”   “But if my wand was so powerful, how come Hermione was able to break  it?” asked Harry.   “My dear boy, its remarkable effects were directed only atVoldemort, who  had tampered so ill-advisedly with the deepest laws of magic. Only toward him  was that wand abnormallypowerful. Otherwise it was a wand like any other  ...thoughagood one,I am sure,” Dumbledore finished kindly.   Harry sat in thought for a long time, or perhaps seconds. It was very hard  to be sure of things like time, here.   “He killed me with your wand.”   “He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dumbledore corrected Harry. “I think  we can agree you are not dead—though, of course,” he added, as if fearing he  had been discourteous, “I do not minimize your sufferings, which I am sure   
 were severe.”   “I feel great at the moment, though,” said Harry, looking down at his clean,  unblemished hands. “Where are we, exactly?”   “Well,Iwasgoingtoaskyouthat,”said Dumbledore,looking around. “Where  would you saythat we are?”   Until Dumbledore had asked, Harry had not known. Now, however, he  found that he had an answer ready to give.   “Itlooks,”hesaidslowly,“likeKing’sCross station.Exceptalotcleanerand  empty, and there are no trains as far asI can see.”   “King’s Cross station!” Dumbledore was chuckling immoderately. “Good  gracious, really?”   “Well, where do you think we are?” asked Harry, a little defensively.   “Mydearboy,Ihaveno idea. Thisis, astheysay, your party.”   Harry had no idea what this meant; Dumbledore was being infuriating. He  glared at him, then remember a much more pressing question than that of  their current location.   “TheDeathly Hallows,”hesaid,andhewasgladtoseethatthewordswiped  the smile from Dumbledore’s face.   “Ah, yes,” he said. He even looked a little worried.   “Well?”   For the first time since Harry had met Dumbledore, he looked less than an  oldman,muchless.Helooked fleetinglylikeasmallboycaughtin wrongdoing.   “Can you forgive me?” he said. “Can you forgive me for not trusting you?  For not telling you? Harry,Ionly feared that you would fail asIhad failed.I  only dreaded that you would makemy mistakes.I crave your pardon, Harry.I  have known, for some time now, that you are the better man.”   “What are you talking about?” asked Harry, startled by Dumbledore’s tone,  by the sudden tears in his eyes.   “The Hallows, the Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore. “A desperate man’s  dream!”   “But they’re real!”   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    “Real, and dangerous, anda lure for fools,” said Dumbledore. “AndI was  such a fool. But you know, don’t you?Ihave no secrets from you anymore.You  know.”   “What doIknow?”   Dumbledore turned his whole body to face Harry, and tears still sparkled in  his brilliantly blue eyes.   “Master of death, Harry, master of Death! Was I better, ultimately, than  Voldemort?”   “Of course you were,” said Harry. “Of course—how can you ask that? You  never killed if you could avoid it!”   “True, true,” said Dumbledore, andhewas likeachild seeking reassurance.  “YetItoo soughtawayto conquer death, Harry.”   “Not the wayhe did,” said Harry. After all his anger at Dumbledore, how  odd it was to sit here, beneath the high, vaulted ceiling, and defend Dumbledore  from himself. “Hallows, not Horcruxes.”   “Hallows,” mumbled Dumbledore, “not Horcruxes. Precisely”   Therewasa pause. The creaturebehind them whimpered, but Harry no  longer looked around.   “Grindelwald was looking for them too?” he asked.   Dumbledore closed his eyes for a moment and nodded.   “It was the thing, above all, that drew us together,” he said quietly. “Two  clever, arrogant boys with a shared obsession. He wanted to come to Godric’s  Hollow,asIam sureyouhave guessed, becauseofthegraveof IgnotusPeverell.  He wanted to explore the place the third brother had died.”   “So it’s true?” asked Harry. “Allof it? ThePeverell brothers—”   “—were the three brothers of the tale,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Oh  yes,Ithinkso. WhethertheymetDeathonalonelyroad ...Ithinkitmore  likely that the Peverell brothers were simply gifted, dangerous wizards who  succeeded in creating those powerful objects. The story of them being Death’s  own Hallows seems to me the sort of legend that might have sprung up around  suchcreations.   
 “The Cloak, as you know now, traveled down through the ages, father to  son, mother to daughter, right down to Ignotus’s last living descendant, who  was born, as Ignotus was, in the village of Godric’s Hollow.”   Dumbledore smiled at Harry.   “Me?”   “You.Youhaveguessed,Iknow,whytheCloakwasinmy possessiononthe  nightyourparentsdied.Jameshadshowedittomejustafewdays previously.  It explained so muchof his undetected wrong-doing at school! Icould hardly  believe whatI was seeing.Iaskedto borrowit,to examineit.Ihadlong since  given up my dream of uniting the Hallows, but I could not resist, could not  helptakingacloserlook...ItwasaCloakthelikesofwhichIhad neverseen,  immenselyold, perfectinevery respect...andthenyour fatherdied,andIhad  two Hallows at last, all to myself!”   His tone was unbearably bitter.   “The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them survive,though,” Harry said quickly.  “Voldemort knew where my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn’t have made  them curse-proof.”   “True,” sighed Dumbledore. “True.”   Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak, so he prompted him.   “So you’dgiven up looking for the Hallows when you saw the Cloak?”   “Oh yes,” said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he forced himself to meet  Harry’s eyes. “You know what happened. You know. You cannot despise me  more thanIdespise myself.”   “ButIdon’t despise you—”   “Then you should,” said Dumbledore. He drewadeep breath. “You know the  secret of my sister’s ill health, what those Muggles did, what she became. You  know how my poor father sought revenge, and paid the price, died in Azkaban.  You know how my mother gave up her own life to care for Ariana.   “I resented it, Harry.”   Dumbledore stated it baldly, coldly. He was looking now over the top of  Harry’s head, into the distance.   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    “Iwas gifted,Iwas brilliant.Iwantedto escape.Iwantedto shine.Iwanted  glory.   “Do not misunderstand me,” he said, and pain crossed the face so that he  looked ancient again.“I loved them.Ilovedmy parents,Ilovedmy brotherand  my sister,butIwas selfish, Harry,more selfishthan you,who arearemarkably  selfless person, could possibly imagine.   “Sothat,whenmy motherdied,andI wasleftthe responsibilityofadamaged  sisterandawayward brother,Ireturnedtomy villagein angerandbitterness.  Trapped andwasted,Ithought! And then,of course,he came....”   Dumbledore looked directly into Harry’s eyes again.   “Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas caught me, Harry, inflamed  me. Muggles forced into subservience.Wewizards triumphant. Grindelwald  and I, the glorious young leaders of the revolution.   “Oh, I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience with empty words.  It would all be for the greater good, and any harm done would be repaid a  hundredfold in benefits for wizards. DidI know, in my heart of hearts, what  Gellert Grindelwaldwas?IthinkIdid, butI closedmy eyes. If the plans we  were making came to fruition, all my dreams would come true.   “Andatthe heartof ourschemes,the DeathlyHallows! Howthey fascinated  him, how they fascinated both of us! The unbeatable wand, the weapon that  would lead us to power! The Resurrection Stone—to him, thoughIpretended  nottoknowit,it meantanarmyof Inferi!Tome,Iconfess,it meantthe return  of my parents, and the lifting of all responsibility from my shoulders.   “And the Cloak ... somehow, we never discussed the Cloak much, Harry.  Both of us could conceal ourselves well enough without the Cloak, the true  magic of which, of course, is that it can be used to protect and shield others  as well as its owner. Ithought that, if we ever found it, it might be useful in  hiding Ariana, but our interest in the Cloak was mainly that it completed the  trio, for the legend said that the man who united all three objects would then  be truly master of death, which we took to mean ‘invincible.’   “Invincible masters of death, Grindelwald and Dumbledore! Two months of   
 insanity, of cruel dreams, and neglect of the only two members of my family left  to me.   “Andthen...youknowwhat happened. Reality returnedintheformofmy  rough, unlettered, and infinitely more admirable brother. I did not want to  hearthe truthshe shoutedatme.IdidnotwanttohearthatIcouldnotset  forth to seek Hallows with a fragile and unstable sister in tow.   “The argument becamea fight. Grindelwald lost control. That whichIhad  always sensed in him, thoughIhad pretended not to, now sprang into terrible  being.And Ariana...afterallmy mother’s careand caution ...laydeadupon  the floor.”   Dumbledore gave a little gasp and began to cry in earnest. Harry reached  out and was glad to find that he could touchhim: He gripped his arm tightly  and Dumbledore gradually regained control.   “Well,Grindelwaldfled,asanyonebutIcouldhave predicted.He vanished,  with his plans for seizing power, and his schemes for Muggle torture, and his  dreams of the Deathly Hallows, dreams in which I had encouraged him and  helpedhim.Heran,whileI waslefttoburymy sister,andlearntolivewith  my guilt and my terrible grief, the price of my shame.   “Years passed. There were rumors about him. They said he had procured  a wand of immense power. I, meanwhile, was offered the post of Minister of  Magic, not once, but several times. Naturally,Irefused. Ihad learned thatI  was not to be trusted with power.”   “But you’dhave been better, muchbetter, than Fudge or Scrimgeour!” burst  out Harry.   “Would I?” asked Dumbledore heavily. “I am not so sure. I had proven,  as a very young man, that power was my weakness and my temptation. It  is a curious thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited to power are  those who have never sought it. Those who, like you, have leadership thrust  upon them, and take up the mantle because they must, and find to their own  surprise that they wear it well.   “Iwas saferatHogwarts.IthinkI wasagood teacher—”   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    “You were the best—”   “—you are very kind, Harry. But whileIbusied myself with the training of  young wizards, Grindelwald was raising an army. They sayhe feared me, and  perhapshe did, but less,Ithink, thanIfeared him.   “Oh, not death,” said Dumbledore, in answer to Harry’s questioning look.  “Not what he could do to me magically. Iknew that we were evenly matched,  perhaps thatI wasa shade more skillful. Itwas the truthIfeared.You see,I  never knew whichof us, in that last, horrific fight, had actually cast the curse  that killedmy sister.Youmaycallme cowardly:You wouldbe right. Harry,I  dreaded beyond all things the knowledge thatit had beenIwho brought about  her death, not merely throughmy arrogance and stupidity, but thatIactually  struckthe blow that snuffed out her life.   “Ithinkheknewit.Ithinkheknewwhat frightenedme.Idelayedmeeting  him until finally, it would have been too shameful to resist any longer. People  weredyingandhe seemed unstoppable,andIhadtodowhatIcould.   “Well, you know what happened next.I won the duel.I won thewand.”   Another silence. Harry did not ask whether Dumbledore had ever found out  who struckAriana dead. He did not want to know, and even less did he want  Dumbledoretohavetotell him.At lasthe knew what Dumbledore wouldhave  seen when he looked in the Mirror of Erised, and why Dumbledore had been so  understanding of the fascination it had exercised over Harry.   They sat in silence for a long time, and the whimperings of the creature  behind them barely disturbed Harry anymore.   Atlasthesaid, “GrindelwaldtriedtostopVoldemortgoingafterthewand.  He lied, you know, pretended he had never had it.”   Dumbledore nodded, looking down at his lap, tears still glittering on the  crooked nose.   “They say he showed remorse in later years, alone in his cell at Nurmengard.  I hope that it is true. I would like to think he did feel the horror and  shameof whathehad done.Perhaps thatlietoVoldemortwashis attemptto  make amends...to preventVoldemortfromtakingthe Hallow... ”   
 “...or maybe from breaking into your tomb?” suggested Harry, and Dumbledore  dabbed his eyes.   After another short pause Harry said, “You tried to use the Resurrection  Stone.”   Dumbledore nodded.   “WhenIdiscovered it, after all those years, buried in the abandoned home  ofthe Gaunts—the HallowIhadcravedmostofall,thoughinmyyouthIhad  wanteditforvery different reasons—Ilostmyhead,Harry.Iquiteforgotthat  it was now a Horcrux, that the ring was sure to carry a curse. Ipicked it up,  andIputiton,andforasecondIimaginedthatI wasabouttosee Ariana,and  my mother,andmy father,andtotellthemhowvery,very sorryI was...   “Iwas such a fool, Harry. After all those yearsIhad learned nothing.I was  unworthy to unite the Deadly Hallows. I had proved it time and again, and  here was the final proof.”   “Why?” said Harry. “Itwas natural!Youwantedto see them again. What’s  wrong with that?”   “Maybeamanina millioncouldunitethe Hallows,Harry.I wasfitonlyto  possess the meanest one of them, the least extraordinary. I was fit to own the  ElderWand,andnottoboastofit,andnottokillwithit.I was permittedto  tame and to use it, becauseItook it, not for gain, but to save others from it.   “But the Cloak, I took out of vain curiosity, and so it could never have  worked for me as it works for you, its true owner. The stone I would have  used in an attempt to drag backthose who are at peace, rather than to enable  my self-sacrifice, as you did.You are the worthy possessorof the Hallows.”   Dumbledore patted Harry’s hand, and Harry looked up at the old man and  smiled; he could not help himself. How could he remain angry with Dumbledore  now?   “Why did you have to make it so difficult?”   Dumbledore’s smile was tremulous.   “Iam afraidIcountedon Miss Grangerto slowyouup, Harry.I was afraid  that your hot head might dominate your good heart. I was scared that, if pre   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    sented outright with the facts about those tempting objects, you might seize  the Hallows as I did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you laid  hands on them,I wanted you to possess them safely.You are the true master  of death, because the true master does not seek to run awayfrom Death. He  accepts that he must die, and understands that there are far, far worse things  in the living world than dying.”   “AndVoldemort never knew about the Hallows?”   “I do not think so, because he did not recognize the Resurrection Stone he  turned intoa Horcrux. But evenifhe had known about them, Harry,Idoubt  that he would have been interested in any except the first. He would not think  that he needed the Cloak, and as for the stone, whom would he want to bring  backfrom the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love.   “But you expected him to go after the wand?”   “Ihave been sure thathe wouldtry, ever since yourwand beatVoldemort’s  in the graveyard of Little Hangleton. At first, he was afraid that you had conquered  him by superior skill. Once he had kidnapped Ollivander, however,  he discovered the existence of the twin cores. He thought that explained everything.  Yet the borrowed wand did no better against yours! SoVoldemort,  instead of asking himself what quality it was in you that had made your wand  so strong, what gift you possessed that he did not, naturally set out to find  the onewand that, they said, would beat any other.For him, the ElderWand  has become an obsession to rival his obsession with you. He believes that the  ElderWand removes his last weakness and makes him truly invincible.Poor  Severus....”   “If you planned your death with Snape, you meant him to end up with the  ElderWand, didn’t you?”   “I admit thatwasmy intention,” said Dumbledore, “butit did not work asI  had intended, did it?”   “No,” said Harry. “That bit didn’t work out.”   The creature behind them jerked and moaned, and Harry and Dumbledore  sat without talking for the longest time yet. The realization of what would   
 happen next settled gradually over Harry in the long minutes,like softly falling   snow.   “I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?”   “That is up to you.”   “I’ve got a choice?”   “Oh yes.” Dumbledore smiled at him. “We are in King’s Cross, you say?  I think that if you decided not to go back, you would be able to ... let’s say  ... boarda train.”   “And where would it take me?”   “On,” said Dumbledore simply.   Silence again.   “Voldemort’s got the ElderWand.”   “True.Voldemort has the ElderWand.”   “But you want me to go back?”   “I think,” said Dumbledore, ”that if you choose to return, there is a chance  thathemaybe finishedfor good.Icannot promiseit. ButIknow this, Harry,  that you have less to fear from returning here than he does.”   Harry glanced again at the raw-looking thing that trembledand choked in  the shadow beneath the distant chair.   “Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and above all, those who  live without love. By returning, you may ensure that fewer souls are maimed,  fewer families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy goal, then we say  good-bye for the present.”   Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would not be nearly as hard  as walking into the forest had been, but it was warm and light and peaceful  here, and he knew that he was heading backto pain and the fear of more loss.  He stoodup,and Dumbledoredidthe same,andthey lookedforalong moment  into eachother’s faces.   “Tell me one last thing,” said Harry. “Is this real? Or has this been happening  inside my head?”   Dumbledore beamed at him, and his voice sounded loud and strong in Harry’s   
 CHAPTER  35.  KING’S  CROSS    ears even though the bright white mist was descending again, obscuring his  figure.   “Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should  that mean that it is not real?”   
 Chapter  36    The  Flaw  in  the  Plan    H H ewas lying facedown on the ground again. The smell of the forest  filled his nostrils. He could feel the cold hard ground beneath  his cheek, and the hinge of his glasses, whichhad been knocked  sideways by the fall, cutting into his temple. Every inchof him ached, and the  place where the Killing Curse had hit him felt like the bruise of an iron-clad  punch. He did not stir but remained exactly where he had fallen, with his left  arm bent out at an awkward angle and his mouth gaping.   He had expected to hear cheers of triumph and jubilation at his death, but  instead hurried footsteps, whispers, and solicitous murmurs filled the air.   “My Lord ... my Lord ... ”   It was Bellatrix’s voice, and she spoke as if to a lover. Harry did not dare  open his eyes, but allowed his other senses to explore his predicament. He  knew that his wand was still stowed beneath his robes because he could feel  it pressed between his chest and the ground. Aslight cushioning effect in the  area of his stomachtold him that the Invisibility Cloak was also there, stuffed  out of sight.   “My Lord ... ”   “That willdo,” saidVoldemort’s voice.   More footsteps. Several people were backingawayfrom the same spot. Des   611   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    perate to see what was happening and why, Harry opened his eyes by a millimeter.    Voldemort seemedtobe gettingtohis feet.Various Death Eaters werehurrying  away from him, returning to the crowd lining the clearing. Bellatrix  alone remained behind, kneeling besideVoldemort.   Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he had seen. The Death  Eaters had been huddled aroundVoldemort, who seemed to have fallen to the  ground. Something had happened when he had hit Harry with the Killing  Curse. HadVoldemort too collapsed? It seemed like it. And both of them had  fallen briefly unconscious and bothof them had now returned....   “My Lord, let me—”   “Ido not require assistance,” saidVoldemort coldly, and thoughhe could not  seeit, Harry pictured Bellatrix withdrawinga helpful hand. “Theboy...Ishe  dead?”   There was complete silence in the clearing. Nobody approached Harry, but  he felt their concentrated gaze; it seemed to press him harder into the ground,  and he was terrified a finger or an eyelid might twitch.   “You,” said Voldemort, and there was a bang and a small shriek of pain.  “Examine him.Tell me whetherheis dead.”   Harry did not know who had been sent to verify. He could only lie there,  with his heart thumping traitorously, and wait to be examined, but at the  same time noting, small comfort though it was, that Voldemort was wary of  approaching him, thatVoldemort suspected that all had not gone to plan....   Hands,softer than he had been expecting,touched Harry’s face,pulled back  aneyelid,crept beneathhisshirt,downtohischest,andfelthisheart.Hecould  hear the woman’s fast breathing, her long hair tickled his face. He knew that  she could feel the steady pounding of life against his ribs.   “Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle?”   The whisper was barely audible; her lips were an inch from his ear, her  head bent so low that her long hair shielded his face from the onlookers.   “Yes,” he breathed back.   
 He felt the hand on his chest contract; her nails pierced him. Then it was  withdrawn. She had sat up.   “He is dead!” Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers.   And now they shouted, now they yelled in triumph and stamped their feet,  and through his eyelids, Harry saw bursts of red and silver light shoot into the  air in celebration.   Still feigning death on the ground, he understood. Narcissa knew that the  only wayshe would be permitted to enter Hogwarts, and find her son, was as  partof the conquering army. She no longer cared whetherVoldemort won.   “You see?” screechedVoldemort over the tumult. “HarryPotteris deadby  my hand, and no man alive can threaten me now!Watch! Crucio!”   Harry had been expecting it, knew his body would not be allowed to remain  unsullied upon the forest floor; it must be subjected to humiliation to prove  Voldemort’s victory. He was lifted into the air, and it took all his determination  to remain limp, yet the pain he expected did not come. He was thrown once,  twice, three times into the air: His glasses flew off and he felt his wand slide  a little beneath his robes, but he kept himself floppy andlifeless, and when he  fell to the ground for the last time, the clearing echoed with jeers and shrieks  of laughter.   “Now,”saidVoldemort,“wegotothe castle,andshowthemwhathas become  of their hero. Who shall drag the body? No—Wait—”   There was a fresh outbreak of laughter, and after a few moment Harry felt  the ground trembling beneath him.   “You carry him,”Voldemort said, “He will be nice and visible in your arms,  will he not? Pick up your little friend, Hagrid. And the glasses—put on the  glasses—he must be recognizable—”   Someone slammed Harry’s glasses onto his face with deliberate force, but  the enormous hands that lifted him into the air were exceedingly gentle. Harry  could feel Hagrid’s arms trembling with the force of his heaving sobs; great  tears splashed down upon him as Hagrid cradled Harry in his arms, and Harry  did not dare, by movement or word, to intimate to Hagrid that all was not, yet,   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    lost.   “Move,” saidVoldemort, and Hagrid stumbled forward, forcing hiswaythrough  the close-growing trees, back through the forest. Branches caught at Harry’s  hair and robes, but he layquiescent, his mouth lolling open, his eyes shut, and  in the darkness,while the Death Eaters crowed all around them, and whileHagrid  sobbed blindly, nobody looked to see whether a pulse beat in the exposed  neckof HarryPotter....   The two giants crashed along behind the Death Eaters; Harry could hear  trees creaking and falling as they passed; they made so much din that birds  rose shrieking into the sky,and even the jeers of the Death Eaters were drowned.  The victorious procession marched on toward the open ground, and after a  while Harry could tell, by the lightening of the darkness through his closed  eyelids, that the trees were beginning to thin.   “BANE!”   Hagrid’s unexpected bellow nearly forced Harry’s eyes open. “Happy now,  are yeh, that yeh didn’ fight, yeh cowardly buncho’ nags? Are yeh happy Harry  Potter’s—d-dead...?”   Hagrid could not continue, but broke down in fresh tears. Harry wondered  how many centaurs werewatching their procession pass;he dared not open his  eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called insults at the centaurs as they  left them behind.Alittle later, Harry sensed,by the fresheningof the air, that  they had reached the edge of the forest.   “Stop.”   HarrythoughtthatHagridmusthavebeen forcedtoobeyVoldemort’s command,  becausehelurchedalittle.Andnowachill settledoverthemwherethey  stood, and Harry heard the rasping breath of the dementors that patrolled the  outer trees. They would not affect him now. The fact of his own survival burned  inside him, a talisman against them, as though his father’s stag kept guardian  in his heart.   Someone passedcloseby Harry, andhe knew thatitwasVoldemort himself  because he spoke a moment later, his voice magicallymagnified so that it   
 swelled through the grounds, crashing upon Harry’s eardrums.   “HarryPotteris dead.Hewas killedashe ranaway, tryingtosave himself  whileyoulaydownyour livesforhim.Webringyouhisbodyasproofthatyour  hero is gone.   “The battle is won. You have lost half of your fighters. My Death Eaters  outnumberyou,andtheBoyWhoLivedis finished. Theremustbenomorewar.  Anybodywho continuesto resist,man, woman,orchild,willbe slaughtered,as  will every member of their family. Come out of the castle now, kneel before me,  and you shall be spared. Your parents and children, your brothers and sisters  will live and be forgiven, and you will join me in the new world we shall build  together.”   There was silence in the grounds and from the castle. Voldemort was so  close to him that Harry did not dare open his eyes again.   “Come,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard him move ahead, and Hagrid  was forcedto follow.NowHarryopenedhiseyesa fraction,andsawVoldemort  striding in front of them, wearing the great snake Nagini around his shoulders,  now free of her enchanted cage. But Harry had no possibility of extracting the  wand concealed under his robes without being noticed by the Death Eaters,  whomarchedoneithersideofthemthroughtheslowlylightening darkness....   “Harry,” sobbed Hagrid. “Oh, Harry...Harry... ”   Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they were approaching the  castle and strained his ears to distinguish, above the gleeful voices of the Death  Eaters and their tramping footsteps, signs of life from those within.   “Stop.”   The Death Eaters came to a halt; Harry heard them spreading out in a line  facing the open front doors of the school. He could see, even through his closed  lids, the reddish glow that meant light streamed upon him from the entrance  hall. He waited. Any moment, the people for whom he had tried to die would  see him, lying apparently dead, in Hagrid’s arms.   “NO!”   The screamwasthe more terrible becausehehad never expectedor dreamed   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    that Professor McGonagall could make suchasound. He heard another woman  laughing nearby, and knew that Bellatrix gloried in McGonagall’s despair. He  squinted again for a single second and saw the open doorwayfilling with people,  as the survivors of the battle came out onto the front steps to face their  vanquishers and see the truth of Harry’s death for themselves. He sawVoldemort  standingalittleinfrontofhim, stroking Nagini’sheadwithasinglewhite  finger. He closed his eyes again.   “No!”   “No!”   “Harry! HARRY!”   Ron’s,Hermione’s,and Ginny’svoices were worse than McGonagall’s; Harry  wanted nothing more than to call back, yet he made himself lie silent, and their  cries acted like a trigger; the crowd of survivors took up the cause, screaming  and yelling abuse at the Death Eaters, until—   “SILENCE!” criedVoldemort, and therewasa bang anda flash of bright  light, and silence was forced upon them all. “It’s over! Set him down, Hagrid,  at my feet, where he belongs!”   Harry felt himself lowered onto the grass.   “You see?” saidVoldemort, and Harry felt him striding backward and forwardright  besidetheplacewherehelay.“HarryPotterisdead!Doyouunderstand  now, deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, but a boy who relied on others  to sacrifice themselves for him!”   “He beat you!” yelled Ron, and the charm broke, and the defenders of Hog- warts were shouting and screaming again until a second, more powerful bang  extinguished their voices once more.   “Hewas killedwhiletryingtosneakoutofthe castlegrounds,”saidVoldemort,  and there was relish in his voice for the lie, “killed while trying to save  himself—”   ButVoldemort broke off: Harry hearda scuffle andashout, then another  bang, a flash of light, and a grunt of pain; he opened his eyes an infinitesimal  amount. Someonehad brokenfreeofthecrowdandchargedatVoldemort:   
 Harry sawthe figure hit the ground, Disarmed,Voldemort throwing thechallenger’s  wand aside and laughing.   “And who is this?” he said in his soft snake’s hiss. “Who has volunteered  to demonstrate what happens to those who continue to fight when the battle is  lost?”   Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh.   “It is Neville Longbottom, my Lord! The boy who has been giving the Car- rows so muchtrouble! The son of the Aurors, remember?”   “Ah, yes, I remember,” said Voldemort, looking down at Neville, who was  struggling back to his feet, unarmed and unprotected, standing in the no- man’s-land between the survivors and the Death Eaters. “But you are a pureblood,  aren’t you, my brave boy?” Voldemort asked Neville, who stood facing  him, his empty hands curled into fists.   “So what ifIam?” said Neville loudly.   “You show spirit and bravery, and you comeof noble stock.You will makea  very valuable Death Eater.We need your kind, Neville Longbottom.”   “I’ll join you when hell freezes over,” said Neville. “Dumbledore’s Army!” he  shouted, and therewas an answeringcheer from the crowd, whomVoldemort’s  Silencing Charms seemed unable to hold.   “Very well,” saidVoldemort, and Harry heard more danger in the silkiness  ofhisvoicethaninthemostpowerful curse.“Ifthatisyourchoice,Longbottom,  we revert to the original plan. On your head,” he said quietly, “be it.”   Still watching through his lashes, Harry saw Voldemort wave his wand.  Seconds later, out of one of the castle’s shattered windows, something that  looked likea misshapen bird flew through the half light and landedinVoldemort’s  hand. He shook the mildewed object by its pointed end and it dangled,  empty and ragged: the Sorting Hat.   “There willbeno more SortingatHogwartsSchool,” saidVoldemort. “There  will be no more Houses. The emblem, shield, and colors of my noble ancestor,  Salazar Slytherin, will suffice for everyone.Won’t they, Neville Longbottom?”   He pointed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and still, then forced the   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    hat onto Neville’s head, so that it slipped down below his eyes. There were  movements from the watching crowd in front of the castle, and as one, the  Death Eaters raised their wands, holding the fighters of Hogwarts at bay.   “Neville here is now going to demonstrate what happens to anyone foolish  enoughto continueto opposeme,”saidVoldemort,andwithaflickofhiswand,  he caused the Sorting Hat to burst into flames.   Screams split the dawn, and Neville was aflame, rooted to the spot, unable  to move, and Harry could not bear it: He must act—   And then many things happened at the same moment.   They heard uproar from the distant boundary of the school as what sounded  like hundreds of people came swarming over the out-of-sight walls and pelted  toward the castle, uttering loud war cries. At the same time, Grawp came  lumbering around the side of the castle and yelled, “HAGGER!” His cry was  answeredby roars fromVoldemort’s giants: They ran at Grawp like bull elephants,  making the earth quake. Then came hooves and the twangs of bows,  and arrows were suddenly falling amongst the Death Eaters, who broke ranks,  shouting their surprise. Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak from inside his  robes, swung it over himself, and sprang to his feet, as Neville moved too.   In one swift, fluid motion, Neville broke free of the Body-Bind Curse upon;  the flaming hat fell off him and he drew from its depths something silver, with  a glittering, rubied handle—   The slash of the silver blade could not be heard over the roar of the oncoming  crowd or the sounds of the clashing giants or of the stampeding centaurs, and  yetit seemedtodraw everyeye.Withasingle stroke Neville slicedoffthe great  snake’s head, whichspun high into the air, gleaming in the light flooding from  theentrancehall,andVoldemort’smouthwasopenina scream offurythat  nobody could hear, and the snake’s body thudded to the ground at his feet—   Hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry cast a Shield Charm between  Neville andVoldemort before the latter could raise hiswand. Then, over the  screams and the roars and the thunderous stamps of the battling giants, Hagrid’s  yell came loudest of all   
 “HARRY!” Hagrid shouted. “HARRY—WHERE’S HARRY?”   Chaos reigned. Thecharging centaurs were scattering the Death Eaters,everyonewas  fleeing the giants’ stamping feet, and nearer and nearer thundered  the reinforcements that had come from who knew where; Harry saw great  winged creatures soaring around the heads of Voldemort’s giants, thestrals  and Buckbeak the hippogriff scratching at their eyes while Grawp punched  and pummeledthem, and now the wizards, defenders of Hogwarts and Death  Eaters alike, were being forced backinto the castle. Harry was shouting jinxes  and curses at any Death Eater he could see, and they crumpled, not knowing  what or who had hit them, and their bodies were trampled by the retreating  crowd.   Still hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry was buffeted into the entrance  hall: He was searching for Voldemort and saw him across the room,  firing spells from his wand as he backed into the Great hall, still screaming  instructions to his followers as he sent curses flying left and right; Harry cast  more Shield Charms, andVoldemort’s would-be victims, SeamusFinnigan and  Hannah Abbott, darted past him into the Great Hall, where they joined the  fight already flourishing inside it.   And now there were more, even more people storming up the front steps,  and Harry saw Charlie Weasley overtaking Horace Slughorn, who was still  wearing his emerald pajamas. They seemed to have returned at the head of  what looked like the families and friends of every Hogwarts student who had  remained to fight, along with the shopkeepers and homeowners of Hogsmeade.  The centaurs Ban, Ronan, and Magorian burst into the hall withagreatclatter  of hooves, as behind Harry the door that led to the kitchens was blasted off its  hinges.   The house-elves of Hogwarts swarmed into the entrance hall, screaming  and waving carving knives and cleavers, and at their head, the locket of Regulus  Blackbouncing on hischest,was Kreacher, his bullfrog’s voice audible even  above this din:“Fight!Fight!Fightformy Master, defenderofthe house-elves!  Fight the Dark Lord,in the nameof brave Regulus!Fight!”   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    They were hacking and stabbing at the ankles and shins of Death Eaters,  their tiny faces alive with malice, and everywhere Harry looked Death Eaters  were folding under sheer weight of numbers, overcome by spells, dragging arrows  from wounds, stabbed in the leg by elves, or else simply attempting to  escape, but swallowed by the oncoming horde.   But it was not over yet: Harry sped between duelers, past struggling prisoners,  and into the Great Hall.   Voldemort was in the center of the battle, and he was striking and smiting  all within reach. Harry could not get a clear shot, but fought his way nearer,  still invisible, and the Great Hall became more and more crowded as everyone  who could walk forced their wayinside.   Harry saw Yaxley slammed to the floor by George and Lee Jordan, saw  Dolohov fall witha scream at Flitwick’s hands, sawWalden Macnair thrown  across the room by Hagrid, hit the stone wall opposite, and slide unconscious  to the ground. He saw Ron and Neville bringing downFenrir Greyback, Aberforth  Stunning Rookwood, Arthur andPercy flooring Thicknesse, and Lucius  and Narcissa Malfoy running through the crowd, not even attempting to fight,  screaming for their son.   Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall, Slughorn, and Kingsley all at  once, and there was cold hatred in his face as they wove and ducked around  him, unable to finish him—   Bellatrixwas still fighting too,fifty yardsawayfromVoldemort, and like her  master she dueled three at once: Hermione, Ginny, and Luna, all battling their  hardest, but Bellatrix was equal to them, and Harry’s attention was diverted  as a Killing Curse shot so close to Ginny that she missed death by an inch—   Hechanged course, runningat Bellatrix rather thanVoldemort,but before  he had gone a few steps he was knocked sideways.   “NOTMYDAUGHTER,YOU BITCH!”   Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, freeing her arms. Bellatrix  spun on the spot, roaring with laughter at the sight of her new challenger.   “OUTOFMYWAY!” shoutedMrs. Weasleytothe three girls,and witha   
 621   swipeofherwandshebegantoduel.Harrywatchedwith terrorand elationas  MollyWeasley’swand slashed and twisted, and Bellatrix Lestrange’s smile faltered  and became a snarl. Jets of light flew from both wands, the floor around  the witches’ feet became hot and cracked; both women were fighting to kill.   “No!” Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran forward, trying to come to  her aid. “Get back! Get back! She is mine!”   Hundredsof people now lined thewalls, watching the two fights,Voldemort  and his three opponents, Bellatrix and Molly, and Harry stood, invisible, torn  between both, wanting to attackand yet to protect, unable to be sure that he  would not hit the innocent.   “WhatwillhappentoyourchildrenwhenI’ve killedyou?” taunted Bellatrix,  as mad as her master, capering as Molly’s curses danced around her. “When  Mummy’s gone the sameway asFreddie?”   “You—will—never—touch—our—children—again!” screamed Mrs.Weasley.   Bellatrix laughed, the same exhilarated laugh her cousin Sirius had given  as he toppled backward through the veil, and suddenly Harry knew what was  going to happen before it did.   Molly’scurse soared beneath Bellatrix’soutstretched arm and hit her squarely  in the chest, directly over her heart.   Bellatrix’s gloating smile froze, her eyes began to bulge: For the tiniest  space of time she knew what had happened, and then she toppled, and the  watching crowd roared, andVoldemort screamed   Harry felt as though he turned in slow motion; he saw McGonagall, Kings- ley, and Slughorn blasted backward, flailing and writhing through the air, as  Voldemort’s fury at the fall of his last, best lieutenant exploded with the force  ofabomb.Voldemort raisedhiswandand directeditatMollyWeasley.   “Protego!” roared Harry, and the Shield Charm expanded in the middle of  the Hall, andVoldemort stared around for the source as Harry pulled off the  Invisibility Cloak at last.   The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on every side of “Harry!” “HE’S  ALIVE!” were stifled at once. The crowd was afraid, and silence fell abruptly   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    and completelyasVoldemortandHarrylookedateachother,andbegan,atthe  same moment, to circle eachother.   “I don’t want anyone else to try to help.” Harry said loudly, and in the total  silence his voice carried like a trumpet call. “It’s got to be like this. It’s got to  be me.”   Voldemort hissed.   “Potter doesn’t mean that,” he said, his red eyes wide. “That isn’t how he  works,isit?Whoareyougoingtouseasa shieldtoday,Potter?”   “Nobody,” said Harry simply. “There are no more Horcruxes. It’s just you  and me. Neither can live while the other survives, and one of us is about to  leave for good....”   “Oneof us?” jeeredVoldemort, and his whole bodywas taunt and his red  eyes stared, a snake that was about to strike. “You think it will be you, do you,  the boy who has survived by accident, and because Dumbledore was pulling  the strings?”   “Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me?” asked Harry. They  were still moving sideways,both of them, in that perfect circle,maintaining the  same distance from eachother, and for Harry no face existed butVoldemort’s.  “Accident, whenI decidedto fightin thatgraveyard? Accident, thatI didn’t  defend myself tonight, and still survived, and returned to fight again?”   “Accidents!” screamedVoldemort, but stillhe did not strike, and thewatching  crowdwas frozen asifPetrified, andof the hundredsin the Hall, nobody  seemed to breathe but they two. “Accident and chance and the fact that you  crouched and sniveled behind the skirts of greater men and women, and permitted  me to kill them for you!”   “You won’t be killing anyone else tonight,” said Harry as they circled, and  stared into eachother’s eyes, green into red. “You won’t be able to kill any of  them ever again. Don’t you get it? I was ready to die to stop you from hurting  these people—”   “But you did not!”   “—I meant to,and that’s what it did. I’ve done what my mother did. They’re   
 protected from you. Haven’t you noticed how none of the spells you put on them  are binding? You can’t torture them. You can’t touch them. You don’t learn  from your mistakes, Riddle, do you?”   “You dare—”   “Yes,Idare,” said Harry. “I knowthings you don’t know,Tom Riddle.Iknow  lots of important things that you don’t. Want to hear some, before you make  another big mistake?”   Voldemort did not speak, but prowled in a circle, and Harry knew that he  kept him temporarily mesmerized and at bay, held backby the faintest possibility  that Harry might indeed knowa final secret....   “Is it love again?” saidVoldemort, his snake’s face jeering. “Dumbledore’s  favorite solution, love, whichhe claimed conquered death, though love did not  stop him falling from the tower and breaking like an old waxwork? Love,  which did not prevent me stamping out your Mudblood mother like a cockroach, Potter—and nobody seems to love you enough to run forward this time  andtakemy curse.SowhatwillstopyoufromdyingnowwhenIstrike?”   “Just one thing,” said Harry, and still they circled each other, wrapped in  eachother, held apart by nothing but the last secret.   “If it is not love that will save you this time,” said Voldemort, “you must  believethatyouhavemagicthatIdonot,orelsea weapon more powerfulthan  mine?”   “I believe both,” said Harry, and he saw shockflit across the snakelike face,  thoughitwas instantly dispelled;Voldemortbegantolaugh,andthesoundwas  more frightening than his screams; humorless and insane,it echoed around the  silent Hall.   “You think you know more magic thanI do?” he said. “Than I, than Lord  Voldemort, who has performed magic that Dumbledore himself never dreamed  of?”   “Oh, he dreamed of it,” said Harry, “but he knew more than you, knew  enough not to do what you’ve done.”   “You meanhewas weak!” screamedVoldemort.“Tooweaktodare,tooweak   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    to take what might have been his, what will be mine!”   “No, he was cleverer than you,” said Harry, “a better wizard, a better man.”   “I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore!”   “You thought you did,” said Harry, “but you were wrong.”   For the first time, the watching crowd stirred as the hundreds of people  around the walls drew breath as one.   “Dumbledore is dead!”Voldemort hurled the words at Harry as though they  would cause him unendurable pain. “His body decays in the marble tomb in the  groundsofthis castle.Ihave seenit,Potter,andhewillnot return!”   ”Yes,Dumbledore’sdead,” said Harry calmly,“but you didn’t have him killed.  He chose his own manner of dying, chose it months before he died, arranged  the whole thing with the man you thought was your servant.”   “Whatchildish dreamis this?” saidVoldemort, but stillhe did not strike,  and his red eyes did not waver from Harry’s.   “Severus Snape wasn’t yours,” said Harry. “Snape was Dumbledore’s Dumbledore’s  from the moment you started hunting down my mother. And you  never realized it, because of the thing you can’t understand. You never saw  Snape castaPatronus, did you, Riddle?”   Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle eachother, like wolves  about to tear eachother apart.   “Snape’sPatronuswasadoe,”saidHarry,“the sameasmy mother’s,because  he loved her for nearly all of his life, from the time when they were children.  You should have realized,” he said as he saw Voldemort’s nostrils flare, “he  asked you to spare her life, didn’t he?”   “He desired her, thatwas all,” sneeredVoldemort, “but when she had gone,  he agreed that there were other women, and of purer blood, worthier of him—”   “Of coursehetoldyouthat,”saidHarry,“buthewas Dumbledore’sspyfrom  the moment you threatened her, and he’s been working against you ever since!  Dumbledore was already dying when Snape finished him!”   “It matters not!” shrieked Voldemort, who had followed every word with  rapt attention, but now let out a cackle of mad laughter. “It matters not   
 whether Snape was mine or Dumbledore’s, or what petty obstacles they tried  toputinmypath!IcrushedthemasIcrushedyour mother,Snape’s supposed  great love! Oh, but it all makes sense, Potter, and in ways that you do not  understand!   “Dumbledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from me! He intended  that Snape shouldbethe true masterofthewand! ButIgot there aheadof  you, little boy—I reached the wand before you could get your hands on it, I  understood the truth before you caughtup,Ikilled Severus Snape three hours  ago, and the ElderWand, the Deathstick, theWand of Destiny is truly mine!  Dumbledore’s last plan went wrong, HarryPotter!”   “Yeah, it did,” said Harry. “You’re right. But before you try to kill me,  I’d advise you to think about what you’ve done.... Think, and try for some  remorse, Riddle....”   “What is this?”   OfallthethingsthatHarryhadsaidtohim,beyondany revelationortaunt,  nothing had shockedVoldemort like this. Harry saw his pupils contact to thin  slits, saw the skin around his eyes whiten.   “It’s your one lastchance,” said Harry, “it’s all you’ve got left.... I’ve seen  what you’llbe otherwise....Bea man...try...Tryfor some remorse....”   “You dare—?” saidVoldemort again.   “Yes,Idare,” said Harry, “because Dumbledore’s last plan hasn’t backfired  on me at all. It’s backfired on you, Riddle.”   Voldemort’s hand was trembling on the Elder Wand, and Harry gripped  Draco’s very tightly. The moment, he knew, was seconds away.   “That wand still isn’t working properly for you because you murdered the  wrong person. Severus Snapewas never the true masterof the ElderWand.  He never defeated Dumbledore.”   “He killed—”   “Aren’t you listening? Snape never beat Dumbledore! Dumbledore’s death  was planned between them! Dumbledore intendedtodie undefeated,thewand’s  lasttrue master!Ifallhadgoneas planned,thewand’spowerwouldhavedied   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    with him, because it had never been won from him!”   “Butthen,Potter, Dumbledoreasgoodasgavemethewand!”Voldemort’s  voice shook with malicious pleasure. “I stole the wand from its last master’s  tomb!Iremovedit against its last master’s wishes! It’s poweris mine!”   “You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you? Possessing the wand isn’t enough!  Holding it, using it, doesn’t make it really yours. Didn’t you listen to Ollivander?  The wand chooses the wizard.... The ElderWand recognizeda new  master before Dumbledore died, someone who never even laid a hand on it.  The new master removed the wand from Dumbledore against his will, never  realizing exactly what he had done, or that the world’s most dangerous wand  had given him its allegiance....   Voldemort’s chest rose and fell rapidly, and Harry could feel the curse coming,  feel it building inside the wand pointed at his face.   “The true masterof the ElderWandwas Draco Malfoy.”   BlankshockshowedinVoldemort’sfacefora moment,butthenitwasgone.   “But what does it matter?” he said softly. “Even if you are right, Potter,  it makes no difference to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix wand:  We duel on skill alone ...and afterI have killed you,I can attend to Draco  Malfoy....”   “But you’re too late,” said Harry. “You’ve missed your chance. I got there  first.Ioverpowered Draco weeks ago.Itook thiswand from him.”   Harry twitched the hawthorn wand, and he felt the eyes of everyone in the  Hall upon it.   “So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?” whispered Harry. “Does the wand  inyourhandknowitslast masterwas Disarmed? Becauseifitdoes...I am  the true masterof the ElderWand.”   Ared-gold glow burst suddenly across the enchanted sky above them as an  edge of dazzling sun appeared over the sill of the nearest window. The light  hit both of their faces at the same time, so that Voldemort’s was suddenly a  flaming blur. Harry heard the high voice shriek as he too yelled his best hope  to the heavens, pointing Draco’s wand:   
 “Avada Kedavra!”   “Expelliarmus!”   The bang was like a cannon blast, and the golden flames that erupted between  them, at the dead center of the circle they had been treading, marked  the point where the spells collided. Harry sawVoldemort’s green jet meet his  own spell, saw the Elder Wand fly high, dark against the sunrise, spinning  across the enchanted ceiling like the head of Nagini, spinning through the air  toward the master it would not kill, who had come to take full possession of it  at last. And Harry, with the unerring skill of a Seeker, caught the wand in his  free hand asVoldemort fell backward, arms splayed, the slit pupilsof the scarlet  eyes rolling upward. Tom Riddle hit the floor with a mundane finality, his  body feeble and shrunken, the white hands empty, the snakelike face vacant  and unknowing.Voldemortwas dead, killedby his own rebounding curse, and  Harry stood with two wands in his hands, staring down at his enemy’s shell.   One shivering secondof silence,the shockofthe moment suspend: and then  the tumult broke around Harry as the screams and the cheers and the roars  of the watchers rent the air. The fierce new sun dazzled the windows as they  thundered toward him, and the first to reach him were Ron and Hermione,  and it was their arms that were wrapped around him, their incomprehensible  shouts that deafened him. Then Ginny,Neville,and Luna were there,and then  all theWeasleys and Hagrid, and Kingsley and McGonagall and Flitwickand  Spout, and Harry could not hear a word that anyone was shouting, nor tell  whose hands were seizing him, pulling him, trying to hug some part of him,  hundreds of them pressing in, all of them determined to touch the Boy Who  Lived, the reason it was over at last—   The sun rose steadily over Hogwarts, and the Great Hall blazed with life  and light. Harry was an indispensable part of the mingled outpourings of jubilation  and mourning, of grief and celebration. They wanted him there with  them, their leader and symbol, their savior and their guide, and that he had  not slept, that he craved the company of only a few of them, seemed to occur to  on one. He must speak to the bereaved, clap their hands, witness their tears,   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    receive their thanks, hear the new now creeping in from every quarter as the  morning drew on; that the Imperiused up and down the country had come back  to themselves, that Death Eaters were fleeing or else being captured, that the  innocentof Azkaban were being releasedat that very moment, andthat Kings- ley Shacklebolt had been named temporary Ministerof Magic....   They movedVoldemort’s body and laiditinachamber off the Hall,away  from the bodiesofFred,Tonks, Lupin, Colin Creevey, and fifty others who had  died fighting him. McGonagall had replaced the House tables, but nobody was  sitting according to House anymore: All were jumbled together, teachers and  pupils, ghosts and parents, centaurs and house-elves, andFirenze lay recovering  in a corner, and Grawp peered in through a smashed window, and people  were through food into his laughing mouth. After a while, exhausted and  drained, Harry found himself sitting on a benchbeside Luna.   “I’d want some peace and quite, if it were me,” she said.   “I’dlove some,” he replied.   “I’ll distract them all,” she said. “Use your Cloak.”   Andbeforehecouldsayawordshecried,“Oooh,look,aBlibbering Humdinger!”  and pointed out of the window. Everyone who heard looked around, and Harry  slid the Cloak up over himself, and got to his feet.   Now he could move through the Hall without interference. He spotted  Ginny two tables away; she was sitting with her head on her mother’s shoulder:  There would be time to talk later, hours and days and maybe years in  which to talk. He saw Neville, the sword of Gryffindor lying beside his plate  as he ate, surrounded by a knot of fervent admirers. Along the aisle between  the tables he walked, and he spotted the three Malfoys, huddled together as  though unsure whether or not they were supposed to be there, but nobody was  paying them any attention. Everywhere he looked he saw families reunited,  and finally, he saw the two whose company he craved most.   “It’s me,” he muttered, crouching down between them. “Will you come with  me?”   They stood up at once, and together he, Ron, and Hermione left the Great   
 629   Hall. Greatchunksweremissingfromthemarble staircase,partofthe balustrade  was gone, and rubble and bloodstains occurred every few steps as theyclimbed.   Somewhere in the distance they could hear Peeves zooming through the  corridors singing a victory song of his own composition:   We did it, we bashed them, weePotter’s the one,  AndVoldy’s gone moldy, so now let’s have fun!    “Really gives a feeling for the scope and tragedy of the thing, doesn’t it?”  said Ron, pushing open a door to let Harry and Hermione through.   Happiness would come, Harry thought, but at the moment it was muffled  by exhaustion, and the pain of losingFred and Lupin andTonks pierced him  like a physical wound every few steps. Most of all he felt the most stupendous  relief, and a longing to sleep. But first he owed an explanation to Ron and  Hermione, who had stuck with him for so long, and who deserved the truth.  Painstakingly he recounted what he had seen in thePensieve and what had  happened in the forest, and they had not even begun to express all their shock  and amazement when at last they arrived at the place to whichthey had been  walking, though none of them had mentioned their destination.   Since he had last seen it, the gargoyle guarding the entrance to the headmaster’sstudyhadbeenknockedaside; itstood lopsided,lookingalittlepunchdrunk,  and Harrywondered whetherit wouldbe ableto distinguish passwords  anymore. “Can we go up?” he asked the gargoyle.   “Feel free.” groaned the statue.   They clambered over him and onto the spiral stone staircase that moved  slowly upward like an escalator. Harry pushed open the door at the top.   He had one, brief glimpse of the stonePensieve on the desk where he had  left it, and then an earsplitting noise made him cry out, thinking of curses and  returning Death Eaters and the rebirthofVoldemort—   But it was applause. All around the walls, the headmasters and head mistressesof  Hogwarts were giving hima standing ovation; theywaved their hats  and in some cases their wigs, they reached through their frames to grip each   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    other’s hands; they danced up and down on the chairs in whichthey had been  painted; Dilys Derwent sobbed unashamedly; DexterFortescuewaswaving his  ear-trumpet; and Phineas Nigellus called, in his high, reedy voice, “And let it  be noted that Slytherin House played its part! Let our contribution not be  forgotten!”   But Harry had eyes only for the man who stood in the largest portrait directly  behind the headmaster’schair.Tears were sliding down from behind the  half-moon spectacles into the long silver beard, and the pride and the gratitude  emanating from him filled Harry with the same balm as phoenix song.   At last, Harry held up his hands, and the portraits fell respectfully silent,  beaming and mopping their eyes and waiting eagerly for him to speak. He  directed his words at Dumbledore, however, and chose them with enormous  care. Exhausted and bleary-eyed though he was, he must make one last effort,  seeking one last piece of advice.   “The thing that was hidden in the Snitch,” he began, “I dropped it in the  forest. Idon’t know exactly where, but I’m not going to go looking for it again.  Do you agree?”   “My dear boy,Ido,” said Dumbledore, while his fellow pictures looked confused  and curious. “Awise and courageous decision, but no less thanIwould  have expected of you. Does anyone else know where it fell?”   “No one,” said Harry, and Dumbledore nodded his satisfaction.   “I’m going to keep Ignotus’s present, though,” said Harry, and Dumbledore  beamed.   “But of course, Harry, it is yours forever, until you pass it on!”   “And then there’s this.”   Harryheldupthe ElderWand,andRonand Hermione lookedatitwitha  reverence that, even in his befuddled and sleep-deprived state, Harry did not  like to see.   “I don’t want it.” said Harry.   “What?” said Ron Loudly. “Are you mental?”   “I know it’s powerful,” said Ron wearily. “ButI was happier with mine. So   
 ... ”   He rummaged in the pouchhung around his neck, and pulled out the two  halves of holly still just connected by the finest thread of phoenix feather.  Hermione had said that they could not be repaired, that the damage was too  severe. All he knew was that if this did not work, nothing would.   Helaidthebrokenwanduponthe headmaster’sdesk,touchitwiththevery  tipof the ElderWand, and said “Reparo.”   Ashiswand resealed,redsparksflewoutofitsend. Harryknewthathehad  succeeded.Hepickedupthehollyandphoenixwandandfelta suddenwarmth  in his fingers, as though wand and hand were rejoicing at their reunion.   “I’m puttingthe ElderWand,”hetold Dumbledore,whowaswatchinghim  with enormous affection and admiration, “backwhere it came from. It can stay  there.IfIdiea natural deathlike Ignotus,its powerwillbe broken, won’tit?  The previous master will never have been defeated. That’ll be the end of it.”   Dumbledore nodded. They smiled at eachother.   “Are you sure?” said Ron. There was the faintest trace of longing in his  voiceashe lookedatthe ElderWand.   “I think Harry’s right,” said Hermione quietly.   “That wand’s more trouble than it’s worth,” said Harry. “And quite honestly,” heturnedawayfromthepainted portraits,thinkingnowonlyofthefourposterbeadlyingwaitingforhimin  GryffindorTowerandwondering whether  Kreacher might bring him a sandwich there, “I’ve had enough trouble for a  lifetime.”   
 CHAPTER  36.  THE  FLAW  IN  THE  PLAN    
 Chapter  37    Epilogue—Nineteen  Years  Later    A A utumn seemed to arrive suddenly that year. The morning of the  first of September was crisp and golden as an apple, and as the  little family bobbed across the rumbling road towards the great  sooty station, the fumes of car exhausts and the breath of pedestrians sparkled  like cobwebs in the cold air. Two large caged rattled on top of the laden trolleys  the parents were pushing; the owls inside them hooted indignantly, and the  redheaded girl trailed tearfully behind her brothers,clutching her father’sarm.   “It won’t be long now, and you’ll be going too,” Harry told her.   “Two years,” sniffed Lily. “I want to go now!”   The commuters stared curiously at the owls as the family wove its way  towards the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Albus’s voice drifted back  to Harry over the surrounding clamor; his sons had resumed the argument  they had started in the car.   “I won’t!Iwon’t be in Slytherin!”   “James, give it a rest!” said Ginny.   “I only said he might be,” said James, grinning at his younger brother.  “There’s nothing wrong with that. He might be in Slyth—”   633   
 CHAPTER  37.  EPILOGUE—NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER    But James caught his mother’s eye and fell silent. The five Potters approachedthe  barrier.Withaslightlycockylook overhis shoulderathis younger  brother,James took the trolley from his mother and broke intoa run. A moment  later, he had vanished.   “You’ll right to me, won’t you?” Albus asked his parents immediately, capitalizing  on the momentary absence of his brother.   “Every day, if you want us to,” said Ginny.   “Not every day,” said Albus quickly. “James says most people only get letters  from home about once a month.”   “We wrotetoJames three timesa week last year,” said Ginny.   “And you don’t want to believe everything he tells you about Hogwarts,”  Harry put in. “He likes a laugh, your brother.”   Side by side, they pushed the second trolley forward, gathering speed. As  they reached the barrier, Albus winced, but no collision came. Instead, the  family emerged onto platform nine and three-quarters, which was obscured by  thickwhite steam which was pouring from the scarlet Hogwarts Express. Indistinct  figures were swarming through the mist, into whichJames had already  disappeared.   “Where are they?” asked Albus anxiously, peering at the hazy forms they  passed as they made their waydown the platform   “We’ll find them,” said Ginny reassuringly.   But the vapor was dense, and it was difficult to make out anybody’s faces.  Detached from their owners, voices sounded unnaturally loud. Harry thought  he heard Percy discoursing loudly on broomstick regulations, and was quite  gladofthe excusenottostopandsayhello....   “I think that’s them, Al,” said Ginny suddenly.   Agroup of four people emerged from the mist, standing alongsidethe very  last carriage. Their faces only came into focus when Harry, Ginny, Lily, and  Albus had drawn right up beside them.   “Hi,” said Albus, sounding immensely relieved.   Rose, who was already wearing her brand-new Hogwarts robes, beamed at   
 him.   “Parked all right, then?” Ron asked Harry. “I did. Hermione didn’t believe  Icould pass a Muggle driving test, did you? She thought I’dhave to Confund  the examiner.”   “No,Ididn’t,” said Hermione,“I had complete faithin you.”   “As a matter of fact, I did Confund him,” Ron whispered to Harry, as together  they lifted Albus’s trunk and owl onto the train. “I only forgot to look in  thewingmirror,andlet’sfaceit,I canusea SupersensoryCharmforthat.”   Back on the platform, they found Lily and Hugo, Rose’s younger brother,  having an animated discussion about which House they would be sorted into  when they finally went to Hogwarts.   “If you’re not in Gryffindor,we’ll disinherit you,” said Ron, “but no pressure.”   “Ron!”   Lily and Hugo laughed, but Albus and Rose looked solemn.   “He doesn’t mean it,” said Hermione and Ginny, but Ron was no longer  paying attention. Catching Harry’s eye, he nodded covertly to a point some  fifty yards away. The steam had thinned for a moment, and three people stood  in sharp relief against the shifting mist.   “Look who it is.”   Draco Malfoy was standing there with his wife and son, a dark coat buttoned  up to his throat. His hair was receding somewhat, which emphasized  the pointed chin. The new boy resembled Draco as much as Albus resembled  Harry. Draco caught sight of Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny staring at him,  nodded curtly, and turned awayagain.   “So that’s little Scorpius,” said Ron under his breath. “Make sure you beat  him in every test, Rosie. Thank God you inherited your mother’s brains.”   “Ron, for heaven’s sake,” said Hermione, half stern, half amused. “Don’t try  to turn them against eachother before they’ve even started school!”   “You’re right, sorry,” said Ron, but unable to help himself, he added, “Don’t  get too friendly with him, though, Rosie. GranddadWeasley would never forgive  you if you married a pureblood.”   
 CHAPTER  37.  EPILOGUE—NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER    “Hey!”   James had reappeared; he had divested himself of his trunk, owl, and trolley,  and was evidently bursting with news.   “Teddy’s backthere,” he said breathlessly, pointing back over his shoulder  into the billowing clouds of steam. “Just seen him! And guess what he’s doing?  SnoggingVictoire!”   He gazed up at the adults, evidently disappointed by the lackof reaction.   “Our Teddy! Teddy Lupin! Snogging our Victoire! Our cousin! AndIasked  Teddy what he was doing—”   “You interrupted them?” said Ginny. “You are so like Ron—”   “—and he said he’d come to see her off! And then he told me to go away!  He’s snogging her!” James added as though worried he had not made himself  clear.   “Oh, it would be lovely if they got married,” whispered Lily sarcastically.  “Teddy would really be part of the family then!”   “He already comes round for dinner about four times a week,” said Harry.  “Why don’t we just invite him to live with us and have done with it?”   “Yeah!” said James enthusiastically. “I don’t mind sharing a room with  Al—Teddy could have my room!”   “No,” said Harry firmly, “you andAl will sharea room only whenI want the  house demolished.”   Hechecked the battered oldwatchwhichhad once beenFabian Prewett’s.   “It’s nearly eleven, you’dbetter get on board.”   “Don’t forgettogive Neville our love!” Ginny toldJamesasshe hugged him.   “Mum!Ican’t givea professor love!”   “But you know Neville!—”   James rolled his eyes.   “Outside, yeah, but at school he’s Professor Longbottom, isn’t he? I can’t  walk into Herbology and give him love.... ”   Shaking his head at his mother’s foolishness, he vented his feelings by aiming  a kickat Albus.   
 “See you later, Al.Watchout for the thestrals.”   “I thought they were invisible? You said they were invisible!”   ButJames merely laughed, permitted his mother to kiss him, gave his father  a fleeting hug, then leapt onto the rapidly filling train. They saw him  wave, then sprint awayup the corridor to find his friends.   “Thestrals are nothing to worry about,” Harry told Albus. “They’re gentle  things, there’s nothing scary about them. Anyway, you won’t be going up to  school in the carriages, you’ll be going in the boats.”   Ginny kissed Albus good-by.   “See you at Christmas.”   “By, Al,” said Harry as his son hugged him. “Don’t forget Hagrid’s invited  you to tea nextFriday. Don’t mess withPeeves. Don’t duel anyone till you’ve  learned how. And don’t letJames wind youup.”   “What if I’m in Slytherin?”   Thewhisperwas for his father alone,and Harry knew that only the moment  of departure could have forced Albus to reveal how great and sincere that fear  was.   Harry crouched down so that Albus’s facewas slightly above his own. Alone  of Harry’s three children, Albus had inherited Lily’s eyes.   “Albus Severus,” Harry said quietly, so that nobody but Ginny could hear,  and she was tactful enough to pretend to be waving to Rose, who was now on  thetrain,“you werenamedfortwoheadmastersofHogwarts.Oneofthemwas  a Slytherin andhewas probably the bravest manI ever knew.”   “But just say—”   “—then Slytherin House will have gained an excellent student, won’t it?  It doesn’t matter to us, Al. But if it matters to you, you’ll be able to choose  Gryffindor over Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes your choice into account.”   “Really?”   “It did for me,” said Harry.   He had never told any of his children that before, and he saw the wonder in  Albus’s face when he said it. But now the doors were slamming all along the   
 CHAPTER  37.  EPILOGUE—NINETEEN  YEARS  LATER    scarlet train, and the blurred outlines of parents were swarming forward for  final kisses,last-minute reminders. Albus jumped into the carriage and Ginny  closed the door behind him. Students were hanging from the windows nearest  them. Agreat number of faces, both on the train and off, seemed to be turned  towards Harry.   “Why are they staring?” demanded Albus as he and Rose craned around to  look at the other students.   “Don’t let it worry you,” said Ron. “It’s me. I’m extremely famous.”   Albus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laughed. The train began to move, and Harry  walked alongside it, watching his son’s thin face, already ablaze with excitement.  Harry kept smiling and waving, even though it was like a little bereavement, watching his son glideawayfrom him....   The last traceof steam evaporatedinthe autumnair. Thetrain roundeda  corner. Harry’s hand was still raised in farewell.   “He’ll be all right,” murmured Ginny.   As Harry looked at her, he lowered his hand absentmindedly and touched  the lightning scar on his forehead.   “I know he will.”   The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All was well.   
 
